1. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1607:1-15. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-7000-1_1.

Expression and Purification of Recombinant Proteins in Escherichia coli with a 
His(6) or Dual His(6)-MBP Tag.

Raran-Kurussi S(1), Waugh DS(2).

Author information:
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, 
National Cancer Institute at Frederick, P.O. Box B, Frederick, MD, 21702-1201, 
USA.
(2)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, 
National Cancer Institute at Frederick, P.O. Box B, Frederick, MD, 21702-1201, 
USA. waughd@mail.nih.gov.

Rapid advances in bioengineering and biotechnology over the past three decades 
have greatly facilitated the production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia 
coli. Affinity-based methods that employ protein or peptide based tags for 
protein purification have been instrumental in this progress. Yet insolubility 
of recombinant proteins in E. coli remains a persistent problem. One way around 
this problem is to fuse an aggregation-prone protein to a highly soluble 
partner. E. coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) is widely acknowledged as a 
highly effective solubilizing agent. In this chapter, we describe how to 
construct either a His6- or a dual His6-MBP tagged fusion protein by Gateway® 
recombinational cloning and how to evaluate their yield and solubility. We also 
describe a simple and rapid procedure to test the solubility of proteins after 
removing their N-terminal fusion tags by tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease 
digestion. The choice of whether to use a His6 tag or a His6-MBP tag can be made 
on the basis of this solubility test.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-7000-1_1
PMCID: PMC7122414
PMID: 28573567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Methods Enzymol. 2014;536:117-31. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-420070-8.00011-8.

Small-scale expression of proteins in E. coli.

Zerbs S(1), Giuliani S(1), Collart F(2).

Author information:
(1)Biosciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, IL, USA.
(2)Biosciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, IL, USA. 
Electronic address: fcollart@anl.gov.

Proteins participate in virtually every cellular activity, and a knowledge of 
protein function is essential for an understanding of biological systems. 
However, protein diversity necessitates the application of an array of in vivo 
and in vitro approaches for characterization of the functional and biochemical 
properties of proteins. Methods that enable production of proteins for in vitro 
studies are critical for determination of the molecular, kinetic, and 
thermodynamic properties of these molecules. Ideally, proteins could be purified 
from the original source; however, the native host is often unsuitable for a 
number of reasons. Consequently, systems for heterologous protein production are 
commonly used to produce large amounts of protein. Heterologous expression hosts 
are chosen using a number of criteria, including genetic tractability, 
advantageous production or processing characteristics (secretion or 
posttranslational modifications), or economy of time and growth requirements. 
The subcloning process also provides an opportunity to introduce purification 
tags, epitope tags, fusions, truncations, and mutations into the coding sequence 
that may be useful in downstream purification or characterization applications. 
Bacterial systems for heterologous protein expression have advantages in ease of 
use, cost, short generation times, and scalability. These expression systems 
have been widely used by high-throughput protein production projects and often 
represent an initial experiment for any expression target. Escherichia coli has 
been studied for many years as a model bacterial organism and is one of the most 
popular hosts for heterologous protein expression (Terpe, 2006). Its protein 
production capabilities have been intensively studied, and the ease of genetic 
manipulation in this organism has led to the development of strains engineered 
exclusively for use in protein expression. These resources are widely available 
from commercial sources and public repositories. Despite these advantages, many 
targets are unsuitable for expression in E. coli, and attempts will not yield 
protein that can be utilized in downstream applications. A thorough 
understanding of the protein target, the requirements of the final application, 
and available tools are all essential for planning a successful expression 
experiment. This protocol is designed to optimize expression and solubility 
using an E. coli host and expression vector with an IPTG-inducible T7 promoter. 
The general features of the method are easily extended to other organisms and 
expression systems. Small-scale expression cultures are used to identify the 
optimum expression parameters for a given target. Thorough analysis of the total 
cell content and soluble fraction is used to screen out failed targets and those 
unlikely to succeed in large-scale purification cultures. The protocol listed 
here can be used in individual tubes for a small number of targets or adapted 
for use in 48-well plates for high throughput applications (Abdullah et al., 
2009). Using the same culture for initial expression analysis and solubility 
analysis reduces variability between expression trials and saves the time 
required to produce separate cultures.

© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-420070-8.00011-8
PMID: 24423272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. World J Gastroenterol. 2005 Oct 21;11(39):6159-64. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v11.i39.6159.

Receptor-binding domain of SARS-Cov spike protein: soluble expression in E. 
coli, purification and functional characterization.

Chen J(1), Miao L, Li JM, Li YY, Zhu QY, Zhou CL, Fang HQ, Chen HP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical Science, 20 Dongda 
Street, Fengtai District, Beijing 100071, China.

AIM: Spike protein of coronavirus is responsible for virus binding, fusion and 
entry, and is a major inducer of neutralizing antibodies. This paper was to find 
a soluble and functional recombinant receptor-binding domain of severe acute 
respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-Cov), and to analyze its 
receptor binding ability.
METHODS: Three fusion tags (glutathione S-transferase, GST; thioredoxin, Trx; 
maltose-binding protein, MBP), which preferably contributes to increasing 
solubility and to facilitating the proper folding of heteroprotein, were used to 
acquire the soluble and functional expression of RBD protein in Escherichia coli 
(BL21(DE3) and Rosetta-gamiB(DE3) strains). The receptor binding ability of the 
purified soluble RBD protein was then detected by ELISA and flow cytometry 
assay.
RESULTS: RBD of SARS-Cov spike protein was expressed as inclusion body when 
fused as TrxA tag form in both BL21 (DE3) and Rosetta-gamiB (DE3) under many 
different cultures and induction conditions. And there was no visible expression 
band on SDS-PAGE when RBD was expressed as MBP tagged form. Only GST tagged RBD 
was soluble expressed in BL21(DE3), and the protein was purified by AKTA Prime 
Chromatography system. The ELISA data showed that GST/RBD antigen had positive 
reaction with anti-RBD mouse monoclonal antibody 1A5. Further flow cytometry 
assay demonstrated the high efficiency of RBD's binding ability to ACE2 
(angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) positive Vero E6 cell. And ACE2 was proved as 
a cellular receptor that meditated an initial-affinity interaction with SARS-Cov 
spike protein. The geometrical mean of GST and GST/RBD binding to Vero E6 cells 
were 77.08 and 352.73 respectively.
CONCLUSION: In this paper, we get sufficient soluble N terminal GST tagged RBD 
protein expressed in E.coli BL21(DE3); data from ELISA and flow cytometry assay 
demonstrate that the recombinant protein is functional and binding to ACE2 
positive Vero E6 cell efficiently. And the recombinant RBD derived from E.coli 
can be used to developing subunit vaccine to block S protein binding with 
receptor and to neutralizing SARS-Cov infection.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i39.6159
PMCID: PMC4436633
PMID: 16273643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Bioinformatics. 2021 Nov 27:btab801. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btab801. Online 
ahead of print.

NetSolP: predicting protein solubility in E. coli using language models.

Thumuluri V, Martiny HM(1), Armenteros JJA(2), Salomon J(3), Nielsen H(4), 
Johansen AR(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Group for Genomic Epidemiology, National Food Institute, Technical 
University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.
(2)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Enzyme Research, Novozymes A/S, Biologiens vej 4, 2800 Lyngby, Denmark.
(4)Department of Health Technology, Technical University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. 
Lyngby, Denmark.
(5)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305, 
USA.

MOTIVATION: Solubility and expression levels of proteins can be a limiting 
factor for large-scale studies and industrial production. By determining the 
solubility and expression directly from the protein sequence, the success rate 
of wet-lab experiments can be increased.
RESULTS: In this study, we focus on predicting the solubility and usability for 
purification of proteins expressed in Escherichia coli directly from the 
sequence. Our model NetSolP is based on deep learning protein language models 
called transformers and we show that it achieves state-of-the-art performance 
and improves extrapolation across datasets. As we find current methods are built 
on biased datasets, we curate existing datasets by using strict 
sequence-identity partitioning and ensure that there is minimal bias in the 
sequences.
AVAILABILITY: The predictor and data are available at 
https://services.healthtech.dtu.dk/service.php?NetSolP and the open-sourced code 
is available at https://github.com/tvinet/NetSolP-1.0.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data is attached in submission.

© The Author(s) (2021). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights 
reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btab801
PMID: 34849581


5. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2021 Dec 25;37(12):4243-4253. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.210046.

[Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for production of hydroxytyrosol].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu C(1)(2), Xia Y(1)(2), Qi L(1)(2), Yang H(1)(2), Chen L(1)(2), Shen W(1)(2), 
Chen X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.

Hydroxytyrosol is an important fine chemical and is widely used in food and 
medicine as a natural antioxidant. Production of hydroxytyrosol through 
synthetic biology is of important significance. Here we cloned and functionally 
characterized a hydroxylase encoding gene HpaBC from Escherichia coli BL21, and 
both subunits of this enzyme can be successfully expressed to convert the 
tyrosol into hydroxytyrosol. A HpaBC gene integration expression cassette under 
the tac promoter was constructed, and integrated into the genome of a tyrosol 
hyper-producing E. coli YMG5A*R using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. Meanwhile, the 
pathway for production of acetic acid was deleted, resulting in a recombinant 
strain YMGRD1H1. Shake flask fermentation showed that strain YMGRD1H1 can 
directly use glucose to produce hydroxytyrosol, reaching a titer of 1.81 g/L, 
and nearly no by-products were detected. A titer of 2.95 g/L was achieved in a 
fed-batch fermentation conducted in a 5 L fermenter, which is the highest titer 
for the de novo synthesis of hydroxytyrosol from glucose reported to date. 
Production of hydroxytyrosol by engineered E. coli lays a foundation for further 
construction of hydroxytyrosol cell factories with industrial application 
potential, adding another example for microbial manufacturing of aromatic 
compounds.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.210046
PMID: 34984871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Oct;174:105663. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105663. Epub 
2020 May 6.

Expression and purification of soluble recombinant SapM from Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis.

Fernandez-Soto P(1), Cavet JS(1), Tabernero L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Biology Medicine and Health, 
University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, 
M13 9PT, UK.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Biology Medicine and Health, 
University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, 
M13 9PT, UK. Electronic address: Lydia.Tabernero@manchester.ac.uk.

SapM from Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a secreted phosphatase critical for 
pathogen survival inside the host, representing an attractive target for the 
development of anti-tuberculosis drugs. The main limitation to biochemical and 
structural studies of SapM has been the lack of a suitable protocol to produce 
soluble recombinant protein. The aim of the present work was to produce SapM in 
Escherichia coli in a soluble and catalytically active form. We describe here 
the construct design, expression and purification of soluble SapM using Sarkosyl 
as a solubility-enhancing agent and auto-induction media. We demonstrate that 
solubilisation of the recombinant protein with Sarkosyl, and further 
purification, yields a catalytically active enzyme with high purity and 
monodisperse. The identity and molecular weight of the recombinant SapM was 
confirmed by mass spectrometry analyses, and we provide evidence that SapM 
behaves as a monomer in solution. Overall, this work lays the foundation for 
further studies to exploit SapM as a drug target, and provides a protocol for 
producing active and soluble recombinant enzymes that are hard to solubilise in 
E. coli.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105663
PMID: 32387341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Microbiologyopen. 2020 Apr;9(4):e1001. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.1001. Epub 2020 Feb 22.

Streamlined production, purification, and characterization of recombinant 
extracellular polyhydroxybutyrate depolymerases.

Martínez-Tobón DI(1), Waters B(1), Elias AL(1), Sauvageau D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada.

Heterologous production of extracellular polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) depolymerases 
(PhaZs) has been of interest for over 30 years, but implementation is sometimes 
difficult and can limit the scope of research. With the constant development of 
tools to improve recombinant protein production in Escherichia coli, we propose 
a method that takes characteristics of PhaZs from different bacterial strains 
into account. Recombinant His-tagged versions of PhaZs (rPhaZ) from Comamonas 
testosteroni 31A, Cupriavidus sp. T1, Marinobacter algicola DG893, Pseudomonas 
stutzeri, and Ralstonia sp. were successfully produced with varying expression, 
solubility, and purity levels. PhaZs from C. testosteroni and P. stutzeri were 
more amenable to heterologous expression in all aspects; however, using the 
E. coli Rosetta-gami B(DE3) expression strain and establishing optimal 
conditions for expression and purification (variation of IPTG concentration and 
use of size exclusion columns) helped circumvent low expression and purity for 
the other PhaZs. Degradation activity of the rPhaZs was compared using a simple 
PHB plate-based method, adapted to test for various pH and temperatures. rPhaZ 
from M. algicola presented the highest activity at 15°C, and rPhaZs from 
Cupriavidus sp. T1 and Ralstonia sp. had the highest activity at pH 5.4. The 
methods proposed herein can be used to test the production of soluble 
recombinant PhaZs and to perform preliminary evaluation for applications that 
require PHB degradation.

© 2020 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.1001
PMCID: PMC7142370
PMID: 32087608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


8. Nat Commun. 2020 May 8;11(1):2262. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-16154-3.

Light-powered Escherichia coli cell division for chemical production.

Ding Q(1)(2), Ma D(1)(2), Liu GQ(3), Li Y(1)(2), Guo L(1)(2), Gao C(1)(2), Hu 
G(1)(2), Ye C(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Liu L(1)(2)(4), Chen X(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
214122, Wuxi, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, 214122, Wuxi, China.
(3)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory for Forestry Biotechnology, Central South 
University of Forestry and Technology, 410004, Changsha, China.
(4)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, 214122, Wuxi, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
214122, Wuxi, China. xlchen@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, 214122, Wuxi, China. xlchen@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    Nat Commun. 2020 Nov 4;11(1):5684.

Cell division can perturb the metabolic performance of industrial microbes. The 
C period of cell division starts from the initiation to the termination of DNA 
replication, whereas the D period is the bacterial division process. Here, we 
first shorten the C and D periods of E. coli by controlling the expression of 
the ribonucleotide reductase NrdAB and division proteins FtsZA through blue 
light and near-infrared light activation, respectively. It increases the 
specific surface area to 3.7 μm-1 and acetoin titer to 67.2 g·L-1. Next, we 
prolong the C and D periods of E. coli by regulating the expression of the 
ribonucleotide reductase NrdA and division protein inhibitor SulA through blue 
light activation-repression and near-infrared (NIR) light activation, 
respectively. It improves the cell volume to 52.6 μm3 and 
poly(lactate-co-3-hydroxybutyrate) titer to 14.31 g·L-1. Thus, the 
optogenetic-based cell division regulation strategy can improve the efficiency 
of microbial cell factories.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-16154-3
PMCID: PMC7210317
PMID: 32385264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


9. Bioinformatics. 2021 Jun 18:btab463. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btab463. Online 
ahead of print.

EPSOL: sequence-based protein solubility prediction using multidimensional 
embedding.

Wu X(1), Yu L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Technology, Xidian University, Xi'an 710071, 
Shaanxi, China.

MOTIVATION: The heterologous expression of recombinant protein requires host 
cells, such as Escherichia coli, and the solubility of protein greatly affects 
the protein yield. A novel and highly accurate solubility predictor that 
concurrently improves the production yield and minimizes production cost, and 
that forecasts protein solubility in an E. coli expression system before the 
actual experimental work is highly sought.
RESULTS: In this paper, EPSOL, a novel deep learning architecture for the 
prediction of protein solubility in an E. coli expression system, which 
automatically obtains comprehensive protein feature representations using 
multidimensional embedding, is presented. EPSOL outperformed all existing 
sequence-based solubility predictors and achieved 0.79 in accuracy and 0.58 in 
Matthew's correlation coefficient. The higher performance of EPSOL permits 
large-scale screening for sequence variants with enhanced manufacturability and 
predicts the solubility of new recombinant proteins in an E. coli expression 
system with greater reliability.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: EPSOL's best model and results can be 
downloaded from GitHub (https://github.com/LiangYu-Xidian/EPSOL).
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author(s) (2021). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights 
reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btab463
PMID: 34145885


10. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 May 24;19(1):109. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01366-5.

Efficient production of myo-inositol in Escherichia coli through metabolic 
engineering.

You R(1)(2), Wang L(2)(3), Shi C(2)(3), Chen H(2)(3), Zhang S(2), Hu M(4), Tao 
Y(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, 230027, China.
(2)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and 
Metabolic Engineering, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100101, China.
(3)College of Life Science, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, China.
(4)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and 
Metabolic Engineering, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100101, China. hmr1211@126.com.
(5)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and 
Metabolic Engineering, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, 100101, China. taoyong@im.ac.cn.
(6)College of Life Science, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, China. taoyong@im.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: The biosynthesis of high value-added compounds using metabolically 
engineered strains has received wide attention in recent years. Myo-inositol 
(inositol), an important compound in the pharmaceutics, cosmetics and food 
industries, is usually produced from phytate via a harsh set of chemical 
reactions. Recombinant Escherichia coli strains have been constructed by 
metabolic engineering strategies to produce inositol, but with a low yield. The 
proper distribution of carbon flux between cell growth and inositol production 
is a major challenge for constructing an efficient inositol-synthesis pathway in 
bacteria. Construction of metabolically engineered E. coli strains with high 
stoichiometric yield of inositol is desirable.
RESULTS: In the present study, we designed an inositol-synthesis pathway from 
glucose with a theoretical stoichiometric yield of 1 mol inositol/mol glucose. 
Recombinant E. coli strains with high stoichiometric yield (> 0.7 mol 
inositol/mol glucose) were obtained. Inositol was successfully biosynthesized 
after introducing two crucial enzymes: inositol-3-phosphate synthase (IPS) from 
Trypanosoma brucei, and inositol monophosphatase (IMP) from E. coli. Based on 
starting strains E. coli BW25113 (wild-type) and SG104 (ΔptsG::glk, ΔgalR::zglf, 
ΔpoxB::acs), a series of engineered strains for inositol production was 
constructed by deleting the key genes pgi, pfkA and pykF. Plasmid-based 
expression systems for IPS and IMP were optimized, and expression of the gene 
zwf was regulated to enhance the stoichiometric yield of inositol. The highest 
stoichiometric yield (0.96 mol inositol/mol glucose) was achieved from 
recombinant strain R15 (SG104, Δpgi, Δpgm, and RBSL5-zwf). Strain R04 (SG104 and 
Δpgi) reached high-density in a 1-L fermenter when using glucose and glycerol as 
a mixed carbon source. In scaled-up fed-batch bioconversion in situ using strain 
R04, 0.82 mol inositol/mol glucose was produced within 23 h, corresponding to a 
titer of 106.3 g/L (590.5 mM) inositol.
CONCLUSIONS: The biosynthesis of inositol from glucose in recombinant E. coli 
was optimized by metabolic engineering strategies. The metabolically engineered 
E. coli strains represent a promising method for future inositol production. 
This study provides an essential reference to obtain a suitable distribution of 
carbon flux between glycolysis and inositol synthesis.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01366-5
PMCID: PMC7247202
PMID: 32448266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


11. Protein J. 2021 Apr;40(2):245-254. doi: 10.1007/s10930-021-09973-w. Epub 2021 
Mar 15.

Expression and Purification of a Recombinant Enterotoxin Protein Using Different 
E. coli Host Strains and Expression Vectors.

Zhao H(1), Xu Y(1)(2), Li X(1), Li G(1), Zhao H(1), Wang L(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, 116024, 
China.
(2)Dalian SEM Bio-Engineering Technology Co. Ltd., Dalian, 116620, China.
(3)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, 116024, 
China. wanglili@dlut.edu.cn.

Infection by Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli is a common cause of diarrhea in 
animals. The development of vaccines against enterotoxins can effectively 
control the infection. We have previously constructed a recombinant antigen SLS 
fused by STa, LTB and STb enterotoxin and it showed a high immunogenicity in 
mice. Herein, we evaluated the expression of SLS in three different E. coli 
cells with corresponding plasmids. SLS proteins expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) 
and Rosetta-gami B (DE3) were aggregated as inclusion bodies, and the proteins 
solubility were not obviously promoted in low temperature combined with 
adjustment of inducer concentration. In contrast, SLS protein with 
maltose-binding protein (MBP) yielded from TB1 (DE3) cells were partially 
soluble. After increasing the IPTG concentration in the medium up to 2 mM and 
incubating at 37 ℃ for 4 h, the soluble protein yield reached the highest level 
(4.533 mg/0.2 L culture), which was significantly higher than the expression of 
SLS protein in Rosetta-gami B (DE3) (P < 0.05). Therefore, the TB1-pMAL 
expression system can be used for mass extraction and purification of SLS 
antigen prior to measuring its immunogenicity in pregnant mammals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-021-09973-w
PMID: 33721189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Microb Cell Fact. 2021 Oct 30;20(1):208. doi: 10.1186/s12934-021-01698-w.

Recombinant expression of insoluble enzymes in Escherichia coli: a systematic 
review of experimental design and its manufacturing implications.

Mital S(1), Christie G(1), Dikicioglu D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, CB3 0AS, UK.
(2)Department of Biochemical Engineering, University College London, London, 
WC1E 6BT, UK. d.dikcioglu@ucl.ac.uk.

Recombinant enzyme expression in Escherichia coli is one of the most popular 
methods to produce bulk concentrations of protein product. However, this method 
is often limited by the inadvertent formation of inclusion bodies. Our analysis 
systematically reviews literature from 2010 to 2021 and details the methods and 
strategies researchers have utilized for expression of difficult to express 
(DtE), industrially relevant recombinant enzymes in E. coli expression strains. 
Our review identifies an absence of a coherent strategy with disparate practices 
being used to promote solubility. We discuss the potential to approach 
recombinant expression systematically, with the aid of modern bioinformatics, 
modelling, and 'omics' based systems-level analysis techniques to provide a 
structured, holistic approach. Our analysis also identifies potential gaps in 
the methods used to report metadata in publications and the impact on the 
reproducibility and growth of the research in this field.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-021-01698-w
PMCID: PMC8557517
PMID: 34717620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


13. Methods Mol Biol. 2021;2178:329-344. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-0775-6_22.

Expression and Purification of Recombinant Proteins in Escherichia coli Tagged 
with the Metal-Binding Proteins SmbP and CusF3H.

Gomez-Lugo JJ(1), Santos BD(1), Perez-Perez DA(1), Montfort-Gardeazabal JM(1), 
McEvoy MM(2), Zarate X(3).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL, Mexico.
(2)Institute for Society & Genetics, Department of Microbiology, Immunology & 
Molecular Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL, Mexico. xristo.zaratekl@uanl.edu.mx.

The bacterium Escherichia coli is still considered the first option as a 
microbial cell factory for recombinant protein production, and affinity 
chromatography is by far the preferred technique for initial purification after 
protein expression and cell lysis. In this chapter, we describe the methodology 
to express and purify recombinant proteins in E. coli tagged with the first two 
metal-binding proteins proposed as fusion partners. They are the small 
metal-binding protein SmbP and a mutant of the copper resistance protein 
CusF3H+. There are several advantages of using them as protein tags: they 
prevent the formation of inclusion bodies by increasing solubility of the target 
proteins, they enable purification by immobilized metal-affinity chromatography 
using Ni(II) ions with high purity, and because of their low molecular weights, 
excellent final yields are obtained for the target proteins after cleavage and 
removal of the protein tag. Here we also describe the protocol for the 
production of proteins in the periplasm of E. coli tagged with two SmbP variants 
that include the PelB or the TorA signal sequences for transport via the Sec or 
the Tat pathway, respectively. Based on these methods, we consider CusF3H+ and 
SmbP excellent alternatives as fusion proteins for the production of recombinant 
proteins in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-0775-6_22
PMID: 33128759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Biotechnol Prog. 2021 Jan;37(1):e3062. doi: 10.1002/btpr.3062. Epub 2020 Aug 19.

A rational approach to improving titer in Escherichia coli-based cell-free 
protein synthesis reactions.

Colant N(1), Melinek B(1), Teneb J(1), Goldrick S(1), Rosenberg W(2), Frank 
S(1), Bracewell DG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Engineering, University College London, London, UK.
(2)UCL Institute for Liver and Digestive Health, Division of Medicine, Royal 
Free Campus, London, UK.

Cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) is an established method for rapid 
recombinant protein production. Advantages like short synthesis times and an 
open reaction environment make CFPS a desirable platform for new and 
difficult-to-express products. Most recently, interest has grown in using the 
technology to make larger amounts of material. This has been driven through a 
variety of reasons from making site specific antibody drug conjugates, to 
emergency response, to the safe manufacture of toxic biological products. We 
therefore need robust methods to determine the appropriate reaction conditions 
for product expression in CFPS. Here we propose a process development strategy 
for Escherichia coli lysate-based CFPS reactions that can be completed in as 
little as 48 hr. We observed the most dramatic increases in titer were due to 
the E. coli strain for the cell extract. Therefore, we recommend identifying a 
high-producing cell extract for the product of interest as a first step. Next, 
we manipulated the plasmid concentration, amount of extract, temperature, 
concentrated reaction mix pH levels, and length of reaction. The influence of 
these process parameters on titer was evaluated through multivariate data 
analysis. The process parameters with the highest impact on titer were 
subsequently included in a design of experiments to determine the conditions 
that increased titer the most in the design space. This proposed process 
development strategy resulted in superfolder green fluorescent protein titers of 
0.686 g/L, a 38% improvement on the standard operating conditions, and hepatitis 
B core antigen titers of 0.386 g/L, a 190% improvement.

© 2020 The Authors. Biotechnology Progress published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.3062
PMID: 32761750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Metab Eng. 2019 Dec;56:111-119. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2019.09.009. Epub 2019 Sep 
21.

In vivo production of psilocybin in E. coli.

Adams AM(1), Kaplan NA(2), Wei Z(3), Brinton JD(4), Monnier CS(5), Enacopol 
AL(6), Ramelot TA(7), Jones JA(8).

Author information:
(1)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: adamsam8@miamioh.edu.
(2)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: kaplanna@miamioh.edu.
(3)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: weiz2@miamioh.edu.
(4)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: brintojd@miamioh.edu.
(5)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: monniecs@miamioh.edu.
(6)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: enacopal@miamioh.edu.
(7)Miami University, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Oxford, OH, 
45056, USA. Electronic address: t.ramelot@miamioh.edu.
(8)Miami University, Department of Chemical, Paper, And Biomedical Engineering, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA. Electronic address: jonesj28@miamioh.edu.

Psilocybin, the prodrug of the psychoactive molecule psilocin, has demonstrated 
promising results in clinical trials for the treatment of addiction, depression, 
and post-traumatic stress disorder. The development of a psilocybin production 
platform in a highly engineerable microbe could lead to rapid advances towards 
the bioproduction of psilocybin for use in ongoing clinical trials. Here, we 
present the development of a modular biosynthetic production platform in the 
model microbe, Escherichia coli. Efforts to optimize and improve pathway 
performance using multiple genetic optimization techniques were evaluated, 
resulting in a 32-fold improvement in psilocybin titer. Further enhancements to 
this genetically superior strain were achieved through fermentation 
optimization, ultimately resulting in a fed-batch fermentation study, with a 
production titer of 1.16 g/L of psilocybin. This is the highest psilocybin titer 
achieved to date from a recombinant organism and a significant step towards 
demonstrating the feasibility of industrial production of biologically-derived 
psilocybin.

Copyright © 2019 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2019.09.009
PMID: 31550507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2020 Mar;36(3):264-270.

[Expression of HPV16 E6 recombinant protein and preparation of its rabbit 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Q(1), Zhu J(1), Wang L(1), Wang Q(1), Zhu S(1), Chen S(1), Zhang L(1), 
Jiang P(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Virology and Immunology, Department of Medical 
Microbiology and Immunology, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325000, China.
(2)Institute of Molecular Virology and Immunology, Department of Medical 
Microbiology and Immunology, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325000, China. 
*Corresponding author, E-mail: peng-feijiang@hotmail.com.

Objective To express E6 protein of human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 in 
prokaryotic expression system and prepare its polyclonal antibody. Methods HPV16 
E6 gene was obtained from Siha cells by PCR and cloned into pET21a(+) vector to 
construct the recombinant plasmid pET21a(+)/HPV16 E6 that was confirmed by 
sequencing. The recombinant plasmid pET21a(+)/HPV16 E6 was transformed into E. 
coli BL21 (DE3). The HPV16 E6-His tag recombinant protein was expressed after 
the induction of isopropyl beta-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), purified by 
Ni-NTA affinity chromatography, and then analyzed by Western blot analysis. The 
purified HPV16 E6 recombinant protein was used to immunize Japanese white 
rabbits to prepare polyclonal antibody. The titer of the serum polyclonal 
antibody was determined by ELISA. The specificity of the polyclonal antibody was 
analyzed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence. Results The recombinant 
plasmid pET21a(+)/HPV16 E6 was successfully constructed and confirmed by 
sequencing. After the recombinant plasmid pET21a(+)/HPV16 E6 was transformed 
into E. coli BL21 (DE3), the recombinant HPV16 E6 protein was expressed and 
purified by affinity chromatography. The polyclonal antibody at a titer of 1:40 
000 was obtained by immunizing Japanese big-ear white rabbit with the purified 
recombinant HPV16 E6 protein, and its specificity was confirmed by Western 
blotting and immunofluorescence assay. Conclusion HPV16 E6 recombinant protein 
was successfully expressed and the rabbit polyclonal antibody against HPV16 E6 
recombinant protein was prepared.

PMID: 32389175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Apr 22;68(16):4616-4623. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b07610. 
Epub 2020 Apr 9.

High-Level Production of Tyrosol with Noninduced Recombinant Escherichia coli by 
Metabolic Engineering.

Xu W(1)(2), Yang C(1)(2), Xia Y(1)(2), Zhang L(1)(2), Liu C(1)(2), Yang H(1)(2), 
Shen W(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry & Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.

Tyrosol is a pharmacologically active phenolic compound widely used in the 
pharmaceutical and chemical industries. Microbial fermentation has potential 
value as an environmentally friendly approach to tyrosol production, but suffers 
from low tyrosol yields and the need for expensive media additives. In this 
study, Escherichia coli MG1655 was modified by integrating an E. coli 
codon-optimized version of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae phenylpyruvate 
decarboxylase gene, named ARO10*, into the lacI locus. The resulting strain 
(YMGA*) produced 0.14 mM tyrosol from 2% glucose without the need for expensive 
media supplements. Subsequent deletion of E. coli genes designed to eliminate 
competing metabolic pathways (feaB, pheA, tyrB) or undesirable gene regulation 
(tyrR) produced a strain (YMGA*R) that produced 3.11 mM tyrosol. Tyrosol 
production was then increased to 10.92 mM by increasing the ARO10* copy number 
to five copies (strain YMG5A*R). Finally, tyrosol production was increased to 28 
mM (ca. 3.9 g/L) by optimizing fermentation conditions in a 5 L fermenter. 
Engineering a productive E. coli strain with high tyrosol titer from glucose 
using a medium that does not require added amino acids, inducer, or antibiotic 
provides a solid basis to produce tyrosol through microbial fermentation.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b07610
PMID: 32208625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Microorganisms. 2018 Nov 25;6(4):116. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms6040116.

Inclusion Body Bead Size in E. coli Controlled by Physiological Feeding.

Kopp J(1), Slouka C(2), Strohmer D(3), Kager J(4), Spadiut O(5), Herwig C(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. julian.kopp@tuwien.ac.at.
(2)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. christoph.slouka@tuwien.ac.at.
(3)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. daniel.strohmer@gmx.net.
(4)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Engineering, 
Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
julian.kager@tuwien.ac.at.
(5)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Engineering, 
Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
oliver.spadiut@tuwien.ac.at.
(6)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. christoph.herwig@tuwien.ac.at.
(7)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Engineering, 
Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
christoph.herwig@tuwien.ac.at.

The Gram-negative bacterium E. coli is the host of choice for producing a 
multitude of recombinant proteins relevant in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Generally, cultivation is easy, media are cheap, and a high product titer can be 
obtained. However, harsh induction procedures combined with the usage of IPTG 
(isopropyl β-d-1 thiogalactopyranoside) as an inducer are often believed to 
cause stress reactions, leading to intracellular protein aggregates, which are 
so known as so-called inclusion bodies (IBs). Downstream applications in 
bacterial processes cause the bottleneck in overall process performance, as 
bacteria lack many post-translational modifications, resulting in time and 
cost-intensive approaches. Especially purification of inclusion bodies is 
notoriously known for its long processing times and low yields. In this 
contribution, we present screening strategies for determination of inclusion 
body bead size in an E. coli-based bioprocess producing exclusively inclusion 
bodies. Size can be seen as a critical quality attribute (CQA), as changes in 
inclusion body behavior have a major effect on subsequent downstream processing. 
A model-based approach was used, aiming to trigger a distinct inclusion body 
size: Physiological feeding control, using qs,C as a critical process parameter, 
has a high impact on inclusion body size and could be modelled using a 
hyperbolic saturation mechanism calculated in form of a cumulated substrate 
uptake rate. Within this model, the sugar uptake rate of the cells, in the form 
of the cumulated sugar uptake-value, was simulated and considered being a key 
performance indicator for determination of the desired size. We want to 
highlight that the usage of the mentioned screening strategy in combination with 
a model-based approach will allow tuning of the process towards a certain 
inclusion body size using a qs based control only. Optimized inclusion body size 
at the time-point of harvest should stabilize downstream processing and, 
therefore, increase the overall time-space yield. Furthermore, production of 
distinct inclusion body size may be interesting for application as a biocatalyst 
and nanoparticulate material.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms6040116
PMCID: PMC6313631
PMID: 30477255

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


19. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Sep;185:105906. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105906. Epub 
2021 May 12.

Improving the yield of recalcitrant Nanobodies® by simple modifications to the 
standard protocol.

Kariuki CK(1), Magez S(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Interactions (CMIM), Vrije Universiteit 
Brussels, Brussels, Belgium; Department of Tropical and Infectious Diseases, 
Institute of Primate Research (IPR), Nairobi, Kenya. Electronic address: 
Christopher.kariuki@vub.be.
(2)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Interactions (CMIM), Vrije Universiteit 
Brussels, Brussels, Belgium; Laboratory for Biomedical Research, Ghent 
University Global Campus, Yeonsu-Gu, Incheon, South Korea; Department of 
Biochemistry and Microbiology, Universiteit Gent, Ledeganckstraat 35, 9000, 
Gent, Belgium. Electronic address: Stefan.magez@vub.be.

Nanobodies are single-domain antibody constructs derived from the variable 
regions of heavy chain only (VHH) camelid IgGs. Their small size and single gene 
format make them amenable to various molecular biology applications that require 
a protein affinity-based approach. These features, in addition to their high 
solubility, allows their periplasmic expression, extraction and purification in 
E. coli systems with relative ease, using standardized protocols. However, some 
Nanobodies are recalcitrant to periplasmic expression, extraction and 
purification within E. coli systems. To improve their expression would require 
either a change in the expression host, vector or an increased scale of 
expression, all of which entail an increase in the complexity of their 
expression, and production cost. However, as shown here, specific changes in the 
existing standard E. coli culture protocol, aimed at reducing breakdown of 
selective antibiotic pressure, increasing the initial culture inoculum and 
improving transport to the periplasmic space, rescued the expression of several 
such refractory Nanobodies. The periplasmic extraction protocol was also changed 
to ensure efficient osmolysis, prevent both protein degradation and prevent 
downstream chelation of Ni2+ ions during IMAC purification. Adoption of this 
protocol will lead to an improvement of the expression of Nanobodies in general, 
and specifically, those that are recalcitrant.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105906
PMID: 33991675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 May 23;34(6):77. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-018-2462-3.

Improved production of 1-deoxynojirymicin in Escherichia coli through metabolic 
engineering.

Rayamajhi V(1), Dhakal D(1), Chaudhary AK(1), Sohng JK(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science and Biochemical Engineering, Institute of 
Biomolecule Reconstruction (iBR), Sun Moon University, 70 Sunmoon-ro 221, 
Tangjeong-myeon, Asan-si, Chungnam, 31460, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science and Biochemical Engineering, Institute of 
Biomolecule Reconstruction (iBR), Sun Moon University, 70 Sunmoon-ro 221, 
Tangjeong-myeon, Asan-si, Chungnam, 31460, Republic of Korea. 
sohng@sunmoon.ac.kr.
(3)Department of BT-Convergent Pharmaceutical Engineering, Sun Moon University, 
70 Sunmoon-ro 221, Tangjeong-myeon, Asan-si, Chungnam, 31460, Republic of Korea. 
sohng@sunmoon.ac.kr.

Azasugars, such as 1-deoxynojirymicin (1-DNJ), are associated with diverse 
pharmaceutical applications, such as antidiabetic, anti-obesity, anti-HIV, and 
antitumor properties. Different azasugars have been isolated from diverse 
microbial and plant sources though complicated purification steps, or generated 
by costly chemical synthesis processes. But the biosynthesis of such potent 
molecules using Escherichia coli as a heterologous host provides a broader 
opportunity to access these molecules, particularly by utilizing synthetic 
biological, metabolic engineering, and process optimization approaches. This 
work used an integrated approach of synthetic biology, enzyme engineering, and 
pathway optimization for rational metabolic engineering, leading to the improved 
production of 1-DNJ. The production of 1-DNJ in recombinant E. coli culture 
broth was confirmed by enzymatic assays and mass spectrometric analysis. 
Specifically, the pathway engineering for its key precursor, 
fructose-6-phosphate, along with optimized media condition, results in the 
highest production levels. When combined, 1-DNJ production was extended to 
~ 273 mg/L, which is the highest titer of production of 1-DNJ reported using E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-018-2462-3
PMID: 29796897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nat Commun. 2021 Aug 17;12(1):4976. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-25243-w.

Genome-scale target identification in Escherichia coli for high-titer production 
of free fatty acids.

Fang L(1)(2), Fan J(1)(2), Luo S(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), Wang C(1)(2), Cao Y(3)(4), 
Song H(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Frontier Science Center for Synthetic Biology and Key Laboratory of Systems 
Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering 
(Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, 
Tianjin, China.
(3)Frontier Science Center for Synthetic Biology and Key Laboratory of Systems 
Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin University, Tianjin, China. 
caoyingxiu@tju.edu.cn.
(4)Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering 
(Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, 
Tianjin, China. caoyingxiu@tju.edu.cn.
(5)Frontier Science Center for Synthetic Biology and Key Laboratory of Systems 
Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin University, Tianjin, China. 
hsong@tju.edu.cn.
(6)Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering 
(Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, 
Tianjin, China. hsong@tju.edu.cn.

To construct a superior microbial cell factory for chemical synthesis, a major 
challenge is to fully exploit cellular potential by identifying and engineering 
beneficial gene targets in sophisticated metabolic networks. Here, we take 
advantage of CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) and omics analyses to systematically 
identify beneficial genes that can be engineered to promote free fatty acids 
(FFAs) production in Escherichia coli. CRISPRi-mediated genetic perturbation 
enables the identification of 30 beneficial genes from 108 targets related to 
FFA metabolism. Then, omics analyses of the FFAs-overproducing strains and a 
control strain enable the identification of another 26 beneficial genes that are 
seemingly irrelevant to FFA metabolism. Combinatorial perturbation of four 
beneficial genes involving cellular stress responses results in a recombinant 
strain ihfAL--aidB+-ryfAM--gadAH-, producing 30.0 g L-1 FFAs in fed-batch 
fermentation, the maximum titer in E. coli reported to date. Our findings are of 
help in rewiring cellular metabolism and interwoven intracellular processes to 
facilitate high-titer production of biochemicals.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-25243-w
PMCID: PMC8371096
PMID: 34404790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


22. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2019;49(4):315-327. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2019.1566145. 
Epub 2019 Feb 15.

Cytoplasmic and periplasmic expression of recombinant shark VNAR antibody in 
Escherichia coli.

Leow HC(1), Fischer K(2), Leow YC(1), Braet K(3), Cheng Q(2)(4), McCarthy 
J(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)a Institute for Research in Molecular Medicine (INFORMM) , Universiti Sains 
Malaysia , Penang , Malaysia.
(2)b Clinical Tropical Medicine Department, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research 
Institute , Brisbane , Australia.
(3)c Department of Research , BioMARIC , Zwijnaarde , Belgium.
(4)d Department of Drug Resistance Diagnostics , Australian Army Malaria 
Institute , Brisbane , Australia.
(5)e School of Medicine , University of Queensland , Brisbane , Australia.

Shark variable new antigen receptors (VNARs) are known to possess excellent 
heat-stability, and the long complementarity determining region 3 (CDR3) has 
permitted it to penetrate into the cleft region of antigens. The number of 
cysteine (Cys) residues contained within VNAR is greater than in conventional 
antibodies, entailing disulfide bond formation in both the inter- or intra-loop 
regions is required for interactions with the target protein antigens. 
Therefore, the selection of a suitable expression system is important to ensure 
the solubility and correct folding of functional VNAR protein production. Unlike 
higher organisms, the machinery for effecting posttranslational modifications of 
proteins in Escherichia coli (E. coli) are less sophisticated. To overcome this 
circumstance, a pDSB-28Y vector fusion with DsbA signal peptide was engineered 
for periplasmic H8VNAR production. Despite the periplasmic proteins showing a 
lower yield (62 µg/mL) than cytosolic proteins (468 µg/mL) that is obtained from 
pET-28a vector, it has demonstrated better performance than that of a cytosolic 
protein in terms of absorbance. However, these readings were still inferior to 
that of positive control mouse monoclonal antibody (mAb) C1-13 in this 
experiment. Therefore, further investigation is required to improve the binding 
affinity of selected recombinant VNAR towards malaria biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2019.1566145
PMID: 30767708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Biotechnol Lett. 2021 Jun;43(6):1221-1228. doi: 10.1007/s10529-021-03108-y. Epub 
2021 Mar 5.

Engineering a heterologous synthetic pathway in Escherichia coli for efficient 
production of biotin.

Wei PP(1), Zhu FC(1), Chen CW(1), Li GS(2).

Author information:
(1)Anhui Engineering Laboratory for Conservation and Sustainable Utilization of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Resources, Department of Biological and 
Pharmaceutical Engineering, West Anhui University, Lu'an, 237012, Anhui, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Anhui Engineering Laboratory for Conservation and Sustainable Utilization of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Resources, Department of Biological and 
Pharmaceutical Engineering, West Anhui University, Lu'an, 237012, Anhui, 
People's Republic of China. liguosi1989@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To enhance biotin production in Escherichia coli by engineering a 
heterologous biotin synthetic pathway.
RESULTS: Biotin operon genes from Pseudomonas putida, which consisted of a 
bioBFHCD cluster and a bioA gene, was engineered into Escherichia coli for 
biotin production. The introduction of bioW gene from Bacillus subtilis, 
encoding pimeloyl-CoA synthetase and sam2 gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 
encoding S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) synthetase contributed to the 
heterologous production of biotin in recombinant E. coli. Furthermore, biotin 
production was efficiently enhanced by optimization of the fermentation 
compositions, especially pimelic acid and L-methionine, the precursor related to 
the pimeloyl-CoA and SAM synthesis, respectively. The combination of 
overexpression of the heterologous biotin operon genes and enhanced supply of 
key intermediate pimeloyl-CoA and SAM increased biotin production in E. coli by 
more than 121-fold. With bioprocess engineering efforts, biotin was produced at 
a final titer of 92.6 mg/L in a shake flask and 208.7 mg/L in a fed-batch 
fermenter.
CONCLUSION: Through introduction of heterologous biotin synthetic pathway, 
increasing the supply of precursor pimeloyl-CoA and cofactor SAM can 
significantly enhance biotin production in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-021-03108-y
PMID: 33666816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Biomol NMR Assign. 2020 Oct;14(2):251-254. doi: 10.1007/s12104-020-09955-6. Epub 
2020 Jun 5.

(1)H, (13)C and (15) N NMR assignments of solubility tag protein Msyb of 
Escherichia coli.

Yang Y(1), Ke Z(2), Wang Z(1), Li Y(1), Li Y(3), Wang Y(1), Liu B(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)BioBank, First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Shaanxi, 
710061, China.
(2)Wuhan Children's Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science & Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan, 
China.
(4)BioBank, First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Shaanxi, 
710061, China. bliu2018@xjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Instrument Analysis Centre, of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Shaanxi, China. 
bliu2018@xjtu.edu.cn.

Biochemical and structural characterizations of a protein are the prerequisite 
for the further understanding of its biological role and potential applications. 
The expression of recombinant protein is almost unavoidable to produce the 
amount of the protein required for these studies, especially at the industrial 
level. Escherichia coli is the single most used system for recombinant protein 
expression and the first choice for a trial expression. Besides the inherited 
defects of its prokaryotic origin, the E. coli system has problems like low 
protein solubility and formation of inclusion bodies. To improve the solubility 
while assisting correct folding of the target protein, fusing a tag protein 
prior to its N-terminus is one of the common approaches. GST, MBP, Trx and SUMO 
proteins are among the most used tags by providing different advantages during 
recombinant protein expression. Msyb, a small and acidic protein native to E. 
coli, is another example that could improve the solubility of the target 
protein. While the biophysical and biochemical properties of these common tag 
proteins have been studied to a great extent, Msyb protein remains largely 
uncharacterized. Here, using solution-state NMR, our near-complete resonance 
assignment of Msyb provides a basis for future structure determination which 
would help to expand its usage as a common tag protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s12104-020-09955-6
PMID: 32504338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Methods Mol Biol. 2021;2280:55-67. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1286-6_5.

Heterologous Overexpression of Human FAD Synthase Isoforms 1 and 2.

Galluccio M(1), Indiveri C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department DiBEST (Biologia, Ecologia, Scienze della Terra) Unit of 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biotechnology, University of Calabria, Arcavacata di 
Rende, Italy.
(2)Department DiBEST (Biologia, Ecologia, Scienze della Terra) Unit of 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biotechnology, University of Calabria, Arcavacata di 
Rende, Italy. cesare.indiveri@unical.it.

The study of human FAD synthase enzymes requires a recombinant strategy to 
produce large amount of purified proteins in a soluble form. E. coli was 
exploited to this aim. To achieve the production of FAD synthase in a large 
scale, E. coli strains, plasmids (promoter, tags), growth temperature, inducer 
concentration, medium composition, and osmotic pressure were optimized. To date 
there is no universal protocol for protein expression, but for each protein a 
specific combination of "expression parameters" can be selected in order to 
maximize the results. An experimental protocol for the expression of two 
isoforms of the human FAD synthase was set up. The final procedures are based on 
the use of E. coli Rosetta(DE3) strain. Two different plasmids were used to 
obtain optimal amount of the two protein isoforms. In both cases, following the 
addition of the IPTG inducer, the growth temperature was lowered to increase the 
solubility of the recombinant protein. The detailed procedures for FAD synthase 
isoform 1 and isoform 2 overproduction are described in this protocol.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1286-6_5
PMID: 33751429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2021 Jul;44(7):1557-1566. doi: 
10.1007/s00449-021-02541-7. Epub 2021 Mar 10.

Enhancing ectoine production by recombinant Escherichia coli through step-wise 
fermentation optimization strategy based on kinetic analysis.

Dong Y(#)(1)(2), Zhang H(#)(1)(2), Wang X(2), Ma J(2), Lei P(2), Xu H(1)(2)(3), 
Li S(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, Nanjing, 211816, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Food Science and Light Industry, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
211816, People's Republic of China.
(3)Jiangsu National Synergetic Innovation Center for Advanced Materials, Nanjing 
Tech University, Nanjing, People's Republic of China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, Nanjing, 211816, People's Republic of China. lisha@njtech.edu.cn.
(5)College of Food Science and Light Industry, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
211816, People's Republic of China. lisha@njtech.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

In this study, the recombinant ectoine-producing Escherichia coli ET01 was 
constructed by introducing the ectABC operon from Halomonas venusta ZH. To 
further improve ectoine production, the regulation of the fermentation process 
was systematically investigated. First, the effects of the initial glucose 
concentrations and glucose feeding mode on ectoine production were analyzed. 
Using a combination of pH-feedback feeding and glucose-controlled feeding, the 
ectoine titer reached 25.5 g/L, representing an 8.8-fold increase over standard 
batch culture. Then, the effects of dissolved oxygen (DO) levels (50, 40, 30, or 
20%) on ectoine production were studied, and a DO control strategy was developed 
based on the fermentation kinetics. When the final optimized two-stage 
fermentation strategy was used, the ectoine titer reached 47.8 g/L, which was 
the highest level of ectoine produced by E. coli fermentation. The fermentation 
regulation strategy developed in this study might be useful for scaling up the 
commercial production of ectoine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-021-02541-7
PMID: 33751211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Oct;186:105918. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105918. Epub 
2021 May 24.

Optimized expression and purification of a soluble BMP2 variant based on 
in-silico design.

Heinks T(1), Hettwer A(2), Hiepen C(3), Weise C(3), Gorka M(4), Knaus P(3), 
Mueller TD(5), Loidl-Stahlhofen A(4).

Author information:
(1)Westfälische Hochschule Recklinghausen, 45665, Recklinghausen, Germany. 
Electronic address: Tobias.Heinks@uni-bielefeld.de.
(2)Westfälische Hochschule Recklinghausen, 45665, Recklinghausen, Germany; 
Universität Würzburg, Department for Molecular Plant Physiology and Biophysics - 
Botany I, Julius-von-Sachs Institute, 97082, Würzburg, Germany.
(3)Freie Universität Berlin, Institute of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 14195, 
Berlin, Germany.
(4)Westfälische Hochschule Recklinghausen, 45665, Recklinghausen, Germany.
(5)Universität Würzburg, Department for Molecular Plant Physiology and 
Biophysics - Botany I, Julius-von-Sachs Institute, 97082, Würzburg, Germany.

Bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP21) is a highly interesting therapeutic growth 
factor due to its strong osteogenic/osteoinductive potential. However, its 
pronounced aggregation tendency renders recombinant and soluble production 
troublesome and complex. While prokaryotic expression systems can provide BMP2 
in large amounts, the typically insoluble protein requires complex 
denaturation-renaturation procedures with medically hazardous reagents to obtain 
natively folded homodimeric BMP2. Based on a detailed aggregation analysis of 
wildtype BMP2, we designed a hydrophilic variant of BMP2 additionally containing 
an improved heparin binding site (BMP2-2Hep-7M). Consecutive optimization of 
BMP2-2Hep-7M expression and purification enabled production of soluble dimeric 
BMP2-2Hep-7M in high yield in E. coli. This was achieved by a) increasing 
protein hydrophilicity via introducing seven point mutations within aggregation 
hot spots of wildtype BMP2 and a longer N-terminus resulting in higher affinity 
for heparin, b) by employing E. coli strain SHuffle® T7, which enables the 
structurally essential disulfide-bond formation in BMP2 in the cytoplasm, c) by 
using BMP2 variant characteristic soluble expression conditions and application 
of l-arginine as solubility enhancer. The BMP2 variant BMP2-2Hep-7M shows 
strongly attenuated although not completely eliminated aggregation tendency.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105918
PMID: 34044133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Oct;186:105908. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105908. Epub 
2021 May 26.

Expression and purification of recombinant SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein in 
inclusion bodies and its application in serological detection.

Li G(1), Li W(2), Fang X(3), Song X(3), Teng S(3), Ren Z(4), Hu D(4), Zhou S(4), 
Wu G(4), Li K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Yueyang Vocational and Technical College, 414000, 
Yueyang, Hunan, China; Hunan RunKun Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, 414000, Yueyang, 
Hunan, China. Electronic address: 451476379@qq.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, Yueyang Vocational and Technical College, 414000, 
Yueyang, Hunan, China. Electronic address: 1307878066@qq.com.
(3)Department of Medicine, Yueyang Vocational and Technical College, 414000, 
Yueyang, Hunan, China.
(4)Hunan RunKun Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, 414000, Yueyang, Hunan, China.

The current standard for the diagnosis of COVID-19 is the nucleic acid test of 
SARS-CoV-2 RNA, however, virus antibody detection has the advantages of 
convenient sample collection, high throughout, and low cost. When combining 
detection with nucleic acid detection, antibody detection can effectively 
compensate for nucleic acid detection. Virus infection always induce high 
antibody titer against SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein (N protein), which can be 
used to detect COVID-19 at both infected and convalescent patients. In this 
study we reported the expression and purification of N protein in E.coli from 
inclusion bodies by a combination of two cation exchange chromatography, and the 
yield of N protein was around 50 mg/L fermentation broth with more than 90% 
purity. A corresponding colloidal gold detection kit prepared with our purified 
N protein was used to verify the efficiency and accuracy our N protein in 
antibody detection method. Of the 58 COVID-19 PCR positive patients' inactivated 
serum samples, 40 samples were IgM positive (69.0%), and 42 samples were IgG 
positive (72.4%), and all 95 COVID-19 negative patients' inactivated serum 
samples were both IgM and IgG negative. Our results indicates that the refolded 
soluble N protein could be used for the preliminary detection of IgG and IgM 
antibodies against SARS-CoV- 2.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105908
PMCID: PMC8150265
PMID: 34048905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declare no competing interests.


29. Res Pharm Sci. 2019 Oct 4;14(5):400-407. doi: 10.4103/1735-5362.268200. 
eCollection 2019 Oct.

Improvement of solubility and yield of recombinant protein expression in E. coli 
using a two-step system.

Sadeghian-Rizi T(1)(2), Ebrahimi A(1)(2), Moazzen F(1), Yousefian H(2), 
Jahanian-Najafabadi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. 
Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.

Overexpression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli results in inclusion 
body formation, and consequently decreased production yield and increased 
production cost. Co-expression of chaperon systems accompanied by recombinant 
protein is a general method to increase the production yield. However, it has 
not been successful enough due to imposed intense stress to the host cells. The 
aim of this study was to balance the rate of protein production and the imposed 
cellular stresses using a two-step expression system. For this purpose, in the 
first step, green fluorescent protein (GFP) was expressed as a recombinant 
protein model under control of the T7-TetO artificial promoter-operator, 
accompanied by Dnak/J/GrpE chaperon system. Then, in the next step, TetR 
repressor was activated automatically under the control of the stress promoter 
ibpAB and suppressed the GFP production after accumulation of inclusion bodies. 
Thus in this step incorrect folded proteins and inclusion bodies are refolded 
causing increased yield and solubility of the recombinant protein and restarting 
GFP expression again. Total GFP, soluble and insoluble GFP fractions, were 
measured by Synergy H1 multiple reader. Results showed that expression yield and 
soluble/insoluble ratio of GFP have been increased 5 and 2.5 times using this 
system in comparison with the single step process, respectively. The efficiency 
of this system in increasing solubility and production yield of recombinant 
proteins was confirmed. The two-step system must be evaluated for expression of 
various proteins to further confirm its applicability in the field of 
recombinant protein production.

Copyright: © 2019 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.

DOI: 10.4103/1735-5362.268200
PMCID: PMC6827196
PMID: 31798656


30. Biomedica. 2016 Feb 23;36(0):97-108. doi: 10.7705/biomedica.v36i3.3011.

Production of recombinant proteins from Plasmodium falciparum in Escherichia 
coli.

Guerra ÁP(1), Calvo EP, Wasserman M, Chaparro-Olaya J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Investigaciones Básicas en Bioquímica, Departamento de 
Química, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá, D.C., 
Colombia Grupo de Bioquímica y Biología Celular, Instituto Nacional de Salud, 
Bogotá, D.C., Colombia Laboratorio de Parasitología Molecular, Universidad El 
Bosque, Bogotá, D.C., Colombia. aguerra@ins.gov.co.

INTRODUCTION: The production of recombinant proteins is essential for the 
characterization and functional study of proteins from Plasmodium falciparum. 
However, the proteins of P. falciparum are among the most challenging to 
express, and when expression is achieved, the recombinant proteins usually fold 
incorrectly and lead to the formation of inclusion bodies. 
OBJECTIVE: To obtain and purify four recombinant proteins and to use them as 
antigens to produce polyclonal antibodies. The production efficiency and 
solubility were evaluated as the proteins were expressed in two genetically 
modified strains of Escherichia coli to favor the production of heterologous 
proteins (BL21-CodonPlus (DE3)-RIL and BL21-pG-KJE8). 
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The four recombinant P. falciparum proteins corresponding 
to partial sequences of PfMyoA (Myosin A) and PfGAP50 (gliding associated 
protein 50), and the complete sequences of PfMTIP (myosin tail interacting 
protein) and PfGAP45 (gliding associated protein 45), were produced as 
glutathione S-transferase-fusion proteins, purified and used for immunizing 
mice. 
RESULTS: The protein expression was much more efficient in BL21-CodonPlus, the 
strain that contains tRNAs that are rare in wild-type E. coli, compared to the 
expression in BL21-pG-KJE8. In spite of the fact that BL21-pG-KJE8 overexpresses 
chaperones, this strain did not minimize the formation of inclusion bodies. 
CONCLUSION: The use of genetically modified strains of E. coli was essential to 
achieve high expression levels of the four evaluated P. falciparum proteins and 
lead to improved solubility of two of them. The approach used here allowed us to 
obtain and purify four P. falciparum proteins in enough quantity to produce 
polyclonal antibodies in mice, and a fair amount of two pure and soluble 
recombinant proteins for future assays.

DOI: 10.7705/biomedica.v36i3.3011
PMID: 27622630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Biotechnol. 2019 Apr 20;296:75-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.03.014. Epub 
2019 Mar 20.

Monitoring and control strategies for inclusion body production in E. coli based 
on glycerol consumption.

Slouka C(1), Kopp J(2), Strohmer D(2), Kager J(3), Spadiut O(3), Herwig C(4).

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Environmental and Bioscience 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria. Electronic 
address: christoph.slouka@tuwien.ac.at.
(2)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Environmental and Bioscience 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria.
(3)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical 
Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 
Vienna, Austria.
(4)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Environmental and Bioscience 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria; Research Division 
Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Environmental and Bioscience 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria.

The Gram-negative bacterium E. coli is the host of choice for the production of 
a multitude of recombinant proteins in industry. Generally, cultivation is easy, 
media are cheap and a high product titer can be obtained. However, harsh 
induction procedures using IPTG as inducer are often referred to cause stress 
reactions, leading to a phenomenon known as metabolic burden and expression of 
inclusion bodies. In this contribution, we present different strategies for 
determination of critical timepoints for product stability in an E. coli IB 
bioprocess. As non-controlled feeding during induction regularly led to 
undesired product loss, we applied physiological feeding control. We found that 
the feeding strategy has indeed high impact on IB productivity. However, high 
applied qs,C increased IB product titer, but subsequently stressed the cells and 
finally led to product degradation. Calculating the cumulated glycerol uptake of 
the cells during induction phase (dSn), we found an empirical value, which 
serves as a strong indicator for process performance and can be used as process 
analytical tool. We tested different approaches starting from offline control. 
Glycerol accumulation could be used as trigger to establish a model-based 
approach to predict titer and viable cell concentration for a model protein. 
This straight forward control and model-based approach is high beneficial for 
upstream development and for increasing stability.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.03.014
PMID: 30904592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. N Biotechnol. 2018 Jan 25;40(Pt B):245-260. doi: 10.1016/j.nbt.2017.09.005. Epub 
2017 Sep 21.

The E. coli S30 lysate proteome: A prototype for cell-free protein production.

Foshag D(1), Henrich E(2), Hiller E(3), Schäfer M(3), Kerger C(3), 
Burger-Kentischer A(3), Diaz-Moreno I(4), García-Mauriño SM(4), Dötsch V(2), 
Rupp S(5), Bernhard F(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Interfacial Process Engineering and Plasma Technology, 
University of Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)Institute of Biophysical Chemistry, Centre for Biomolecular Magnetic 
Resonance, J.W. Goethe-University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(3)Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Stuttgart, Germany.
(4)Instituto de Investigaciones Químicas (IIQ) - Centro de Investigaciones 
Científicas Isla de la Cartuja (cicCartuja), Universidad de Sevilla - Consejo 
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Sevilla, Spain.
(5)Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Stuttgart, Germany. Electronic address: steffen.rupp@igb.fraunhofer.de.
(6)Institute of Biophysical Chemistry, Centre for Biomolecular Magnetic 
Resonance, J.W. Goethe-University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Electronic 
address: fbern@bpc.uni-frankfurt.de.

Protein production using processed cell lysates is a core technology in 
synthetic biology and these systems are excellent to produce difficult toxins or 
membrane proteins. However, the composition of the central lysate of cell-free 
systems is still a "black box". Escherichia coli lysates are most productive for 
cell-free expression, yielding several mgs of protein per ml of reaction. Their 
preparation implies proteome fractionation, resulting in strongly biased and yet 
unknown lysate compositions. Many metabolic pathways are expected to be 
truncated or completely removed. The lack of knowledge of basic cell-free lysate 
proteomes is a major bottleneck for directed lysate engineering approaches as 
well as for assay design using non-purified reaction mixtures. This study is 
starting to close this gap by providing a blueprint of the S30 lysate proteome 
derived from the commonly used E. coli strain A19. S30 lysates are frequently 
used for cell-free protein production and represent the basis of most commercial 
E. coli cell-free expression systems. A fraction of 821 proteins was identified 
as the core proteome in S30 lysates, representing approximately a quarter of the 
known E. coli proteome. Its classification into functional groups relevant for 
transcription/translation, folding, stability and metabolic processes will build 
the framework for tailored cell-free reactions. As an example, we show that SOS 
response induction during cultivation results in tuned S30 lysate with better 
folding capacity, and improved solubility and activity of synthesized proteins. 
The presented data and protocols can serve as a platform for the generation of 
customized cell-free systems and product analysis.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbt.2017.09.005
PMID: 28943390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Biotechnol J. 2021 Aug;16(8):e2100143. doi: 10.1002/biot.202100143. Epub 2021 
Jun 9.

Supplementation of critical amino acids improves glycerol and lactose uptake and 
enhances recombinant protein production in Escherichia coli.

Kumar J(1), Chauhan AS(1), Gupta JA(1), Rathore AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 
Hauz Khas, New Delhi, Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND: Lactose-based induction strategy in E. coli cultivation has several 
advantages over IPTG as it is cheap, does not impart metabolic stress to cells, 
and is non-toxic to cells. However, complexity of lactose as an inducer limits 
its application in fed-batch cultivation. A mixed glycerol-lactose based 
induction strategy is generally opted during fed-batch cultivation of E. coli. 
However, slow growth of E. coli in glycerol and lactose results in slower 
induction of heterologous protein.
MAIN METHODS AND MAJOR RESULTS: In this study, initially we have demonstrated 
supplementation of critical amino acids (AAs) improves uptake rate of glycerol 
and lactose in wildtype E. coli BL21(DE3) in defined medium. A feeding strategy 
of mixed glycerol-lactose feed along with supplement of critical AAs enhances 
recombinant production of pramlintide multimer (rPramlintide). High cell density 
cultivation of E. coli using mixed glycerol-lactose feed and critical AAs 
supplement resulted in final cell density of 52.2 ± 0.90 g L-1 
 and rPramlintide titer of 7.8 g L-1 . RT-qPCR analysis of genes involved in 
glycerol and lactose metabolism of recombinant culture showed upregulation with 
AAs supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: We hypothesize that supplementation of critical 
AAs serves dual purpose: (i) faster assimilation of carbon sources, and (ii) 
combating metabolic stress arises due to AAs starvation. The substrate uptake 
and gene expression profiles demonstrate that AAs addition enhances glycerol and 
lactose assimilation due to overall improvement in their metabolism governed by 
global regulators of carbon metabolism.

© 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.202100143
PMID: 34047499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Int J Biol Macromol. 2021 Sep 30;187:850-857. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.07.146. Epub 2021 Jul 30.

Functional expression of an echinocandin B deacylase from Actinoplanes utahensis 
in Escherichia coli.

Zou SP(1), Han X(1), Zhu HY(1), Sheng Q(1), Tang H(1), Liu ZQ(2), Zheng YG(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Bioorganic Synthesis of Zhejiang Province, College of 
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 
310014, China; Engineering Research Center of Bioconversion and Biopurification 
of Ministry of Education, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310014, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Bioorganic Synthesis of Zhejiang Province, College of 
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 
310014, China; Engineering Research Center of Bioconversion and Biopurification 
of Ministry of Education, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310014, 
China. Electronic address: microliu@zjut.edu.cn.

Echinocandin B deacylase (ECBD) from Actinoplanes utahensis can be applied to 
produce echinocandin B nucleus (ECBN), an essential intermediate of the 
echinocandins antifungal drugs such as anidulafungin. To date, the expression of 
ECBD has been limited to Streptomyces. To achieve the active expression of ECBD 
in Escherichia coli (E. coli), we constructed a plasmid carrying two subunits of 
ECBD for T7 RNA polymerase driven transcription of dicistron messenger after 
codon optimization. Subsequently, the introduction of peptide tags in the 
recombinant ECBD was adopted to reduce the formation of inclusion bodies and 
enhance the ECBD solubility. The peptide tags with the opposite electrostatic 
charge, hexa-lysine (6K) and GEGEG (GE), exhibited the best positive effect, 
which was verified by activity assay and structural simulation. After that, 
optimization of culture conditions and characterization of ECBD were conducted, 
the optimal pH and temperature were 7.0 and 60 °C. It is the first report 
concerning the functional expression of ECBD in the host E. coli. Our results 
reported here can provide a reference for the high-level expression of other 
deacylases with respect to a possible industrial application.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.07.146
PMID: 34339787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2020 Dec 14;13(1):205. doi: 10.1186/s13068-020-01848-z.

Rewiring of glycerol metabolism in Escherichia coli for effective production of 
recombinant proteins.

Chiang CJ(1), Ho YJ(2), Hu MC(2), Chao YP(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Science and Biotechnology, China Medical 
University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih Road, Taichung, 40402, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Feng Chia University, 100 Wenhwa Road, 
Taichung, 40724, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Feng Chia University, 100 Wenhwa Road, 
Taichung, 40724, Taiwan. ypchao@fcu.edu.tw.
(4)Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
40447, Taiwan. ypchao@fcu.edu.tw.
(5)Department of Food Nutrition and Health Biotechnology, Asia University, 
Taichung, 41354, Taiwan. ypchao@fcu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: The economic viability of a protein-production process relies highly 
on the production titer and the price of raw materials. Crude glycerol coming 
from the production of biodiesel is a renewable and cost-effective resource. 
However, glycerol is inefficiently utilized by Escherichia coli.
RESULTS: This issue was addressed by rewiring glycerol metabolism for 
redistribution of the metabolic flux. Key steps in central metabolism involving 
the glycerol dissimilation pathway, the pentose phosphate pathway, and the 
tricarboxylic acid cycle were pinpointed and manipulated to provide precursor 
metabolites and energy. As a result, the engineered E. coli strain displayed a 
9- and 30-fold increase in utilization of crude glycerol and production of the 
target protein, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The result indicates that the present method of metabolic 
engineering is useful and straightforward for efficient adjustment of the flux 
distribution in glycerol metabolism. The practical application of this 
methodology in biorefinery and the related field would be acknowledged.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-020-01848-z
PMCID: PMC7737366
PMID: 33317614

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


36. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2021 Aug;148:109828. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2021.109828. Epub 2021 May 14.

Identification of a lactose-oxidizing enzyme in Escherichia coli and improvement 
of lactobionic acid production by recombinant expression of a quinoprotein 
glucose dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas taetrolens.

Oh YR(1), Eom GT(2).

Author information:
(1)Bio-based Chemistry Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Chemical 
Technology (KRICT), 406-30, Jongga-ro, Ulsan, 44429, Republic of Korea.
(2)Bio-based Chemistry Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Chemical 
Technology (KRICT), 406-30, Jongga-ro, Ulsan, 44429, Republic of Korea; Advanced 
Materials and Chemical Engineering, University of Science and Technology (UST), 
Daejeon, 34113, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: eomgt@krict.re.kr.

Lactobionic acid (LBA), an aldonic acid prepared by oxidation of the free 
aldehyde group of lactose, has been broadly used in cosmetic, food, and 
pharmaceutical industries. Although Escherichia coli is unable to produce LBA 
naturally, a wild-type E. coli strain successfully produced LBA from lactose 
upon pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) supplementation, indicating that E. coli 
contains at least one lactose-oxidizing enzyme as an apo-form. By inactivating 
the candidate genes in the E. coli chromosome, we found that the 
lactose-oxidizing enzyme of E. coli was the quinoprotein glucose dehydrogenase 
(GCD). To improve the LBA production ability of the E. coli strain, quinoprotein 
glucose dehydrogenase (GDH) from Pseudomonas taetrolens was recombinantly 
expressed and culture conditions such as growth temperature, initial lactose 
concentration, PQQ concentration, and isopropyl-β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside 
induction concentration were optimized. We performed batch fermentation using a 
5-L bioreactor under the optimized culture conditions determined in flask 
culture experiments. After batch fermentation, the LBA production titer, yield, 
and productivity of the recombinant E. coli strain were 200 g/L, 100 %, and 
1.28 g/L/h, respectively. To the best our knowledge, this is the first report to 
identify the lactose-oxidizing enzyme of E. coli and to produce LBA using a 
recombinant E. coli strain as the production host. Because E. coli is one of the 
most easily genetically manipulated bacteria, our result provides the groundwork 
to further enhance LBA production by metabolic engineering of LBA-producing E. 
coli.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2021.109828
PMID: 34116749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 May 29;21(11):3881. doi: 10.3390/ijms21113881.

Production of Active Recombinant Hyaluronidase Inclusion Bodies from Apis 
mellifera in E. coli Bl21(DE3) and characterization by FT-IR Spectroscopy.

Schwaighofer A(1), Ablasser S(2), Lux L(1), Kopp J(2), Herwig C(2), Spadiut 
O(3), Lendl B(1), Slouka C(3).

Author information:
(1)FG Environmental Analytics, Process Analytics and Sensors, Institute of 
Chemical Technology and Analytics, Vienna University of Technology, 
Getreidemarkt 9/164, 1060 Wien, Austria.
(2)FG Bioprocess Technology, ICEBE, Vienna University of Technology, 
Gumpendorferstrasse 1a, 1060 Vienna, Austria.
(3)FG Integrated Bioprocess Development, ICEBE, Vienna University of Technology, 
Gumpendorferstrasse 1a, 1060 Vienna, Austria.

The bacterium E. coli is one of the most important hosts for recombinant protein 
production. The benefits are high growth rates, inexpensive media, and high 
protein titers. However, complex proteins with high molecular weight and many 
disulfide bonds are expressed as inclusion bodies (IBs). In the last decade, the 
overall perception of these IBs being not functional proteins changed, as enzyme 
activity was found within IBs. Several applications for direct use of IBs are 
already reported in literature. While fluorescent proteins or protein tags are 
used for determination of IB activity to date, direct measurements of IB protein 
activity are scacre. The expression of recombinant hyaluronidase from Apis 
mellifera in E. coli BL21(DE3) was analyzed using a face centered design of 
experiment approach. Hyaluronidase is a hard to express protein and imposes a 
high metabolic burden to the host. Conditions giving a high specific IB titer 
were found at 25 °C at low specific substrate uptake rates and induction times 
of 2 to 4 h. The protein activity of hyaluronidase IBs was verified using 
(Fourier transform) FT-IR spectroscopy. Degradation of the substrate hyaluronan 
occurred at increased rates with higher IB concentrations. Active recombinant 
hyaluronidase IBs can be immediately used for direct degradation of hyaluronan 
without further down streaming steps. FT-IR spectroscopy was introduced as a 
method for tracking IB activity and showed differences in degradation behavior 
of hyaluronan dependent on the applied active IB concentration.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21113881
PMCID: PMC7313074
PMID: 32485932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


38. Biotechnol Lett. 2021 Oct;43(10):2035-2043. doi: 10.1007/s10529-021-03169-z. 
Epub 2021 Aug 26.

Modification of an engineered Escherichia coli by a combinatorial strategy to 
improve 3,4-dihydroxybutyric acid production.

Liu Y(1), Mao X(1), Zhang B(1), Lin J(2), Wei D(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 
200237, People's Republic of China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 
200237, People's Republic of China. jplin@ecust.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: 3,4-Dihydroxybutyric acid (3,4-DHBA) is a multifunctional C4 
platform compound widely used for the synthesis of various materials, including 
pharmaceuticals. Although, a biosynthetic pathway for 3,4-DHBA production has 
been developed, its low yield still precludes large-scale use. Here, a 
heterologous four-step biosynthetic pathway was established in recombinant 
Escherichia coli (E. coli) using a combinatorial strategy.
RESULTS: Several aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) were screened, using in vitro 
enzyme assays, to identify suitable catalysts for the dehydrogenation of 
3,4-dihydroxybutanal (3,4-DHB) to 3,4-DHBA. A pathway containing glucose 
dehydrogenase (BsGDH) from Bacillus subtilis, D-xylonate dehydratase (YagF) from 
E. coli, benzoylformate decarboxylase (PpMdlC) from Pseudomonas putida and ALDH 
was introduced into E. coli, generating 3.04 g/L 3,4-DHBA from D-xylose (0.190 g 
3,4-DHBA/g D-xylose). Disruption of competing pathways by deleting xylA, ghrA, 
ghrB and adhP contributed to an 87% increase in 3,4-DHBA accumulation. 
Expression of a fusion construct containing PpMdlC and YagF enhanced the 
3,4-DHBA titer, producing the highest titer and yield reported thus far 
(7.71 g/L; 0.482 g 3,4-DHBA/g D-xylose).
CONCLUSIONS: These results showed that deleting genes from competing pathways 
and constructing fusion proteins significantly improved the titer and yield of 
3,4-DHBA in engineered E. coli.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-021-03169-z
PMID: 34448097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Iran J Biotechnol. 2020 Apr 1;18(2):e2314. doi: 10.30498/IJB.2020.138200.2314. 
eCollection 2020 Apr.

Cytoplasmic Chaperones Enhance Soluble Expression of Anti-EGFR huscFv in 
Escherichia coli.

Nazari A(1), Farajnia S(2)(3), Zahri S(1), Bagherlou N(3), Tanoumand A(4), 
Rahbarnia L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Mohaghegh Ardebili, Ardebil, Iran.
(2)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(3)Biotechnology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(4)Maragheh University of Medical Sciences, Maragheh, Iran.
(5)Infectious and tropical diseases research center, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of EGFR is associated with carcinogenesis in more 
than 70% of head and neck cancers. Anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies bind to the 
extracellular domain of EGFR and block the EGFR downstream signaling pathway, 
which results in the suppression of the growth of the tumor cells. Escherichia 
coli is the preferred system for expressing various recombinant proteins, 
including single chain antibodies, but the formation of inclusion bodies 
negatively affects the efficacy of this system. Several strategies have been 
suggested to solve this problem, notably the utilization of molecular 
chaperones.
OBJECTIVES: In this study, we attempted to increase the soluble expression of 
huscfv antibody via co-expression with the cytoplasmic chaperones.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To achieve this purpose, chaperones plasmids pG-KJE8, 
pGro7, pKjE7, pTf16 and pG-Tf2 encoding cytoplasmic chaperones were co-expressed 
with the humanized anti-EGFR scFv construct in E. coli. Different temperatures, 
incubations times, and concentrations of IPTG were used to produce an active 
antibody with the highest solubility. Results were analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Soluble 
huscFv was purified by Ni-NTA column and the biologic activity of the 
recombinant protein was determined by ELISA.
RESULT: The results indicated that the highest concentrations of humanized 
anti-EGFR scFv were obtained by co-expression of huscFv via chaperone plasmid 
pG-KJE8 with 0.2 mM concentration of inducer (IPTG), culture temperature of 25 
°C, and 4 h incubation time after induction.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, co-expression with chaperones could be used as an 
efficient strategy to produce soluble active ScFvs in E. coli.

Copyright: © 2020 The Author(s); Published by Iranian Journal of Biotechnology.

DOI: 10.30498/IJB.2020.138200.2314
PMCID: PMC7856399
PMID: 33542937


40. J Microbiol Methods. 2020 Jul;174:105946. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.105946. Epub 
2020 May 13.

Activity evaluation of glycolytic promoters from Escherichia coli and 
application for mevalonate biosynthesis.

Guo J(1), Feng S(2), Cheng X(2).

Author information:
(1)First Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, PR 
China; School of Public Health, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, 
Shanxi, PR China. Electronic address: guojianquan2111922@163.com.
(2)School of Public Health, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, 
PR China.

Promoters are the most important tools to control and regulate gene expression 
in synthetic biology and metabolic engineering. The expression of target genes 
in Escherichia coli is usually controlled by inducible promoters which may cause 
excessive metabolic load on the host and may be uneconomical due to inducer 
cost. Therefore, it is important to identify more constitutive promoters that 
are capable of avoiding these limitations. In this study, using the monomeric 
red fluorescent protein (mRFP) as the reporter gene, ten promoters from the 
glycolytic pathway of E. coli were cloned and characterized. We found that 
glycolytic promoters exhibited the advantages of constitutive promoters and 
higher strength compared with the commonly used inducible promoter Plac. We 
further introduced glycolytic promoters into the mevalonate biosynthesis system. 
The maximum mevalonate titer produced by engineered E. coli under the control of 
glycolytic promoters was obviously higher than that under the control of Plac, 
indicating the superiority of glycolytic promoter for the metabolic engineering 
of E. coli. This set of glycolytic promoters significantly expands the range of 
engineering tools available for E. coli and can be applied in future metabolic 
engineering studies.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.105946
PMID: 32413369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there has no conflict of interest, and all authors concur with the 
submission and that the material submitted for publication has not been 
previously reported.


41. PeerJ. 2021 Jan 4;9:e10543. doi: 10.7717/peerj.10543. eCollection 2021.

Soluble expression and purification of Bluetongue Virus Type 1 (BTV1) structure 
protein VP2 in Escherichia coli and its immunogenicity in mice.

Wang A(1), Yin J(1), Zhou J(1), Ma H(1), Chen Y(1), Liu H(1), Qi Y(1), Liang 
C(1), Liu Y(1), Li J(1), Zhang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Zhengzhou University, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Henan, 
PR China.

BACKGROUND: The VP2 on the surface of the virus particle is the main structural 
protein of BTV, which can induce the host to produce neutralizing antibodies and 
play an important role in the antiviral immunity process. This study aimed to 
obtain the soluble VP2 and analyze its immunogenicity.
METHODS: The gene encoding the full-length VP2 of BTV1 was amplified by PCR. The 
products from restriction enzyme digestion and ligase reaction between VP2 and 
vector pET-28a were transformed into E.coli DH5α. After PCR and sequencing 
detection, the positive plasmid PET28a-VP2 was transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3) 
and Rosetta(DE3) competent cells, expression induced by IPTG. The fusion protein 
was expressed in the optimized conditions with the induction of IPTG, purified 
by affinity chromatography and identified by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. A 
total of 5 Balb/c mice aged 6-8 weeks were immunized with the fusion protein at 
a dose of 30 µg per mouse. Each mouse was immunized three times at an interval 
of 3 weeks.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid PET28a-VP2 was successfully constructed. The 
expression strains were induced by 0.4 mmol/L IPTG at 16 °C for 10 h, and BTV1 
VP2 was expressed in a soluble form. The purity of the recombinant VP2 protein 
(∼109 kDa) was about 90% in the concentration at 0.2 mg/ml afterpurification. 
The purified VP2 had good immunoreactivity with BTV1 positive serum. Taken 
together, thisstudy offered a route for producing soluble BTV VP2, which retains 
activity and immunogenicity, to bebeneficial to the research on developing BTV 
vaccine, and lay the foundation for further research on BTV.

©2021 Wang et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.10543
PMCID: PMC7789859
PMID: 33505791

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


42. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2018 Apr 25;34(4):561-568. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.170333.

[Expression, purification and characterization of diphtheria toxin mutant CRM197 
in Eschrichia coli].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Fang T(1), Tao Z(2), Liu Y(1), Yu C(1), Zhi R(1), Yu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 
100071, China.
(2)Department of Biology and Medicine, Beijing City University, Beijing 100083, 
China.

CRM197 (cross-reacting material 197), a non-toxic mutant of diphtheria toxin, 
has wide application potential in biopharmaceuticals. However, it is difficult 
to express CRM197 in bacteria other than Corynebacterium diphtheriae. Here we 
proposed a new alternative method to produce soluble CRM197 without label in 
Escherichia coli. In particular, a synthetic gene coding for CRM197, optimized 
for E. coli codon usage, was cloned in the pET32a (+) vector. Accordingly, the 
over-expression of the protein was simply induced with IPTG in E. coli BL21 
(DE3). The target protein was soluble and accounted for about 40% of the total 
protein in the supernatant. Following an ultrasonic cytolysis step, the 
recombinant protein was purified by anion exchange, affinity and desalting 
chromatography and the purity of the final preparation reached 95%. Cytotoxicity 
tests showed that the IC₅₀ value of CRM197 was 2.1×10⁷ times the IC₅₀ value of 
diphtheria toxin, and 9.6 times the IC50 value of diphtheria toxoid, telling 
that the target protein is safe and non-toxic. Subsequently, we found that both 
the high dose (20 μg) and the low dose (2 μg) of CRM197 were equally efficient 
in inducing an immune response against diphtheria toxiod in mice, and the 
antibodies titer of mice after three immunizations with low dose could reach 
1:409 600. In conclusion, our findings provide a highly efficient strategy for 
the rapid production and purification of unlabeled and soluble recombinant 
CRM197 in E. coli, with good immunogenicity and safety.

Publisher: CRM197 (Cross-reacting material 
197)是白喉毒素的无毒突变体，在生物制药领域具有非常广泛的应用前景。为了实现CRM197 
在大肠杆菌中的无标签、可溶表达，以替代现有昂贵、复杂的白喉杆菌分泌发酵工艺，文中对目的蛋白的序列进行优化，转化大肠杆菌经IPTG 
诱导，目的蛋白获得了可溶性高表达，目的蛋白约占碎菌上清总蛋白的40%。超声破菌后、经阴离子交换、肝素亲和以及脱盐三步柱上层析获得纯度高于95%的CRM197样品。细胞毒性实验证明，CRM197 
的IC₅₀ 值是白喉毒素IC₅₀ 值的 2.1×10⁷ 倍，是白喉类毒素IC₅₀ 值的9.6 倍，表明文中表达的CRM197 
是安全无毒的。随后，比较了高、低剂量的CRM197 在小鼠体内的免疫原性，发现2 μg组三免后的抗体滴度与20 μg 组的相当，可达1︰409 
600。文中建立了CRM197 
的无标签、高效、可溶表达的大肠杆菌表达系和快速纯化体系，获得了具有较好免疫原性和安全性的重组蛋白，为该蛋白的进一步应用奠定了基础。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.170333
PMID: 29701029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Cold Spring Harb Protoc. 2020 Jun 1;2020(6):102152. doi: 10.1101/pdb.prot102152.

Expression of Cloned Genes Using the Baculovirus Expression System.

Kielkopf CL, Bauer W, Urbatsch IL.

The general strategy of the baculovirus expression system is to infect insect 
cells with a virus that expresses a foreign protein at a very late stage of 
infection. Almost all baculovirus expression systems use the procedures for 
insect cell transfection, baculovirus production, and protein expression given 
in the main portion of this protocol. This protocol also includes a method that 
uses molecular biology techniques to produce recombinant baculovirus DNA in E. 
coli before transfection of insect cells. It is important to quantify the viral 
titer to achieve optimal and reproducible expression of target proteins. 
Accordingly, the viral plaque assay is also described here.

© 2020 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/pdb.prot102152
PMID: 32354747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2019 Sep 25;35(9):1650-1661. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.190107.

[Improving the production of 4-aminobenzoic in engineered Escherichia coli by 
combinatorial regulation].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Xu Y(1)(2)(3), Lu F(1)(3), Wang Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin University of Science & Technology, Tianjin 300457, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China.
(3)College of Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science & Technology, Tianjin 
300457, China.

Para-aminobenzoate (PABA) is an important chemical for organic synthesis and 
extensively used in pharmaceutical and dye industry. In recent years, PABA has 
received increasing attention as a potential component of high-strength polymer. 
In Escherichia coli, three genes of pabA, pabB and pabC are responsible for PABA 
production from chorismate in folate synthetic pathway. However, E. coli does 
not accumulate or accumulates very few amounts of PABA under normal growth 
condition. In this study, the tyrosine-producing E. coli TYR002 constructed 
previously was used as the starting strain for developing PABA-producing strain. 
First, the activity of bifunctional chorismate mutase/prephenate dehydrogenase 
TyrA in E. coli TYR002 was weakened to reduce the production of tyrosine. Then, 
three different constitutive promoters were used to regulate the expression of 
pabA, pabB and pabC in recombinant plasmid which was transformed into E. coli 
for improving PABA production. The shake-flask fermentation showed that the 
different combination of constitutive promoters significantly affected the 
production of PABA, and the highest shake-flask fermentation titer was 0.67 g/L. 
After further condition optimization, the engineered E. coli produced 6.4 g/L 
PABA under 5 L fed-batch fermentation. This study could be a good reference for 
improving microbial production of PABA.

Publisher: 
对氨基苯甲酸是一种重要的有机合成中间体，广泛应用于医药、染料等行业。近年来对氨基苯甲酸作为一种潜在的高强度共聚物单体越来越受到重视。对氨基苯甲酸作为叶酸合成的前体之一，其合成在大肠杆菌体内由叶酸合成途径的pabA、pabB 
和pabC 三个基因负责，催化分支酸合成对氨基苯甲酸。本研究以实验室构建的酪氨酸高产工程菌 TYR002 作为出发菌株，首先弱化双功能分支酸突变酶/预苯酸脱氢酶 
TyrA 的表达，以减少酪氨酸积累，然后利用3 种不同强度的组成型启动子分别调控pabA、pabB 和pabC 
的表达。摇瓶发酵表明不同的组合调控模式下大肠杆菌发酵培养基中的对氨基苯甲酸积累量存在显著差异，最高可获得0.67 g/L 
的摇瓶发酵产量。进一步通过发酵条件优化和分批补料发酵，在5 L 发酵罐中获得了6.4 g/L 
的对氨基苯甲酸产量。本研究为改善对氨基苯甲酸生物合成效率提供了重要理论参考。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.190107
PMID: 31559747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Biotechnol J. 2021 Mar;16(3):e2000274. doi: 10.1002/biot.202000274. Epub 2020 
Oct 11.

Inhibition of E. coli Host RNA Polymerase Allows Efficient Extracellular 
Recombinant Protein Production by Enhancing Outer Membrane Leakiness.

Kastenhofer J(1), Rettenbacher L(1), Feuchtenhofer L(2), Mairhofer J(2), Spadiut 
O(1).

Author information:
(1)TU Wien, Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Research Division 
Biochemical Engineering, Research Group Integrated Bioprocess Development, 
Institute of Chemical, Gumpendorfer Strasse 1a, Vienna, 1060, Austria.
(2)enGenes Biotech GmbH, Mooslackengasse 17, Vienna, 1190, Austria.

With the growing interest in continuous cultivation of Escherichia coli, 
secretion of product to the medium is not only a benefit, but a necessity in 
future bioprocessing. In this study, it is shown that induced decoupling of 
growth and heterologous gene expression in the E. coli X-press strain (derived 
from BL21(DE3)) facilitates extracellular recombinant protein production. The 
effect of the process parameters temperature and specific glucose consumption 
rate (qS ) on growth, productivity, lysis and leakiness, is investigated, to 
find the parameter space allowing extracellular protein production. Two model 
proteins are used, Protein A (SpA) and a heavy-chain single-domain antibody 
(VHH), and performance is compared to the industrial standard strain BL21(DE3). 
It is shown that inducible growth repression in the X-press strain greatly 
mitigates the effect of metabolic burden under different process conditions. 
Furthermore, temperature and qS are used to control productivity and leakiness. 
In the X-press strain, extracellular SpA and VHH titer reach up to 349 and 
19.6 mg g-1 , respectively, comprising up to 90% of the total soluble product, 
while keeping cell lysis at a minimum. The findings demonstrate that the X-press 
strain constitutes a valuable host for extracellular production of recombinant 
protein with E. coli.

© 2020 The Authors. Biotechnology Journal published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.202000274
PMID: 32915502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Apr;132:44-49. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.01.006. Epub 
2017 Jan 11.

Production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli tagged with the fusion 
protein CusF3H.

Vargas-Cortez T(1), Morones-Ramirez JR(2), Balderas-Renteria I(2), Zarate X(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL 66455, Mexico.
(2)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL 66455, Mexico; Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, 
Centro de Investigacion en Biotecnologia y Nanotoxicologia, Facultad de Ciencias 
Quimicas, Parque de Investigacion e Innovacion Tecnologica, Apodaca, NL 66629, 
Mexico.
(3)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL 66455, Mexico; Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, 
Centro de Investigacion en Biotecnologia y Nanotoxicologia, Facultad de Ciencias 
Quimicas, Parque de Investigacion e Innovacion Tecnologica, Apodaca, NL 66629, 
Mexico. Electronic address: xristo.zaratekl@uanl.edu.mx.

Recombinant protein expression in the bacterium Escherichia coli still is the 
number one choice for large-scale protein production. Nevertheless, many 
complications can arise using this microorganism, such as low yields, the 
formation of inclusion bodies, and the requirement for difficult purification 
steps. Most of these problems can be solved with the use of fusion proteins. 
Here, the use of the metal-binding protein CusF3H+ is described as a new fusion 
protein for recombinant protein expression and purification in E. coli. We have 
previously shown that CusF produces large amounts of soluble protein, with low 
levels of formation of inclusion bodies, and that proteins can be purified using 
IMAC resins charged with Cu(II) ions. CusF3H+ is an enhanced variant of CusF, 
formed by the addition of three histidine residues at the N-terminus. These 
residues then can bind Ni(II) ions allowing improved purity after affinity 
chromatography. Expression and purification of Green Fluorescent Protein tagged 
with CusF3H+ showed that the mutation did not alter the capacity of the fusion 
protein to increase protein expression, and purity improved considerably after 
affinity chromatography with immobilized nickel ions; high yields are obtained 
after tag-removal since CusF3H+ is a small protein of just 10 kDa. Furthermore, 
the results of experiments involving expression of tagged proteins having medium 
to large molecular weights indicate that the presence of the CusF3H+ tag 
improves protein solubility, as compared to a His-tag. We therefore endorse 
CusF3H+ as a useful alternative fusion protein/affinity tag for production of 
recombinant proteins in E. coli.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.01.006
PMID: 28087367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Iran J Biotechnol. 2016 Mar;14(1):16-22. doi: 10.15171/ijb.1331.

Soluble Expression of Recombinant Nerve Growth Factor in Cytoplasm of 
Escherichia coli.

Shamriz S(1), Ofoghi H(1), Amini-Bayat Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Iranian Research Organization for Science and 
Technology, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Pivotal roles of Nerve growth factor (NGF) in the development and 
survival of both neuronal and non-neuronal cells indicate its potential for the 
treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. However, investigation of NGF deficits 
in different diseases requires the availability of properly folded human β-NGF. 
In previous studies bacterial expression of hNGF demonstrated the feasibility of 
its overproduction. However, known limitations in the use of E. coli as an 
expression host for a protein with three intra-chain disulfide bonds were 
evident.
OBJECTIVES: Here an optimized system was developed to overexpress the soluble 
NGF in E. coli.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The gene encoding the β subunit of mature hNGF was 
optimized based on E. coli codon preference and cloned into pET-32a expression 
vector providing His- and Trx- tags for detection and increasing the solubility 
of recombinant protein, respectively. The recombinant DNA was expressed in E. 
coli Origami (DE3), which enhances the correct formation of disulfide bonds in 
the cytoplasm of E. coli. Different culture conditions were evaluated to 
increase soluble expression of the target protein.
RESULTS: The highest soluble expression level was achieved when E. coli Origami 
(DE3) cells expressing NGF were grown at 30ºC in TB medium with 0.2 mM IPTG 
induction at OD600nm = 1 for 4 h.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that the recombinant NGF was successfully 
expressed as a soluble form.

DOI: 10.15171/ijb.1331
PMCID: PMC5435009
PMID: 28959313


48. Biotechnol J. 2020 May;15(5):e1900363. doi: 10.1002/biot.201900363. Epub 2020 
Feb 24.

Synthetic sRNA-Based Engineering of Escherichia coli for Enhanced Production of 
Full-Length Immunoglobulin G.

Zhang J(1), Zhao Y(1), Cao Y(1), Yu Z(2), Wang G(2), Li Y(2), Ye X(2), Li C(3), 
Lin X(3), Song H(1).

Author information:
(1)Frontier Science Center for Synthetic Biology and Key Laboratory of Systems 
Bioengineering (MOE) , School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300350, P. R. China.
(2)Yangzhou Lianao Biopharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and Yangzhou Aurisco 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Wanmei Road No. 5, Hanjiang Economic Development Zone, 
Yangzhou, Jiangsu, 225100, P. R. China.
(3)College of Food Science and Technology, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, P. 
R. China.

Production of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) receives considerable attention in 
the pharmaceutical industry. There has been an increasing interest in the 
expression of mAbs in Escherichia coli for analytical and therapeutic 
applications in recent years. Here, a modular synthetic biology approach is 
developed to rationally engineer E. coli by designing three functional modules 
to facilitate high-titer production of immunoglobulin G (IgG). First, a 
bicistronic expression system is constructed and the expression of the key genes 
in the pyruvate metabolism is tuned by the technologies of synthetic sRNA 
translational repression and gene overexpression, thus enhancing the cellular 
material and energy metabolism of E. coli for IgG biosynthesis (module 1). 
Second, to prevent the IgG biodegradation by proteases, the expression of a 
number of key proteases is identified and inhibited via synthetic sRNAs (module 
2). Third, molecular chaperones are co-expressed to promote the secretion and 
folding of IgG (module 3). Synergistic integration of the three modules into the 
resulting recombinant E. coli results in a yield of the full-length IgG ≈150 mg 
L-1 in a 5L fed-batch bioreactor. The modular synthetic biology approach could 
be of general use in the production of recombinant mAbs.

© 2020 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201900363
PMID: 32034883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 May;121:61-5. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.01.007. Epub 2016 
Jan 12.

Expression and purification of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli tagged 
with the metal-binding protein CusF.

Cantu-Bustos JE(1), Vargas-Cortez T(1), Morones-Ramirez JR(1), Balderas-Renteria 
I(1), Galbraith DW(2), McEvoy MM(3), Zarate X(4).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL 66451, Mexico.
(2)BIO5 Institute and School of Plant Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, 
AZ 85721, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 
85721, USA.
(4)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL 66451, Mexico. Electronic address: 
xristo.zaratekl@uanl.edu.mx.

Production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli has been improved 
considerably through the use of fusion proteins, because they increase protein 
solubility and facilitate purification via affinity chromatography. In this 
article, we propose the use of CusF as a new fusion partner for expression and 
purification of recombinant proteins in E. coli. Using a cell-free protein 
expression system, based on the E. coli S30 extract, Green Fluorescent Protein 
(GFP) was expressed with a series of different N-terminal tags, immobilized on 
self-assembled protein microarrays, and its fluorescence quantified. GFP tagged 
with CusF showed the highest fluorescence intensity, and this was greater than 
the intensities from corresponding GFP constructs that contained MBP or GST 
tags. Analysis of protein production in vivo showed that CusF produces large 
amounts of soluble protein with low levels of inclusion bodies. Furthermore, 
fusion proteins can be exported to the cellular periplasm, if CusF contains the 
signal sequence. Taking advantage of its ability to bind copper ions, 
recombinant proteins can be purified with readily available IMAC resins charged 
with this metal ion, producing pure proteins after purification and tag removal. 
We therefore recommend the use of CusF as a viable alternative to MBP or GST as 
a fusion protein/affinity tag for the production of soluble recombinant proteins 
in E. coli.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.01.007
PMID: 26805756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Anaerobe. 2021 Jun;69:102326. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2021.102326. Epub 2021 Jan 
27.

Evaluation of the expression and immunogenicity of four versions of recombinant 
Clostridium perfringens beta toxin designed by bioinformatics tools.

Rodrigues RR(1), Alves Ferreira MR(2), Donassolo RA(1), Ferreira Alves ML(3), 
Motta JF(1), Junior CM(1), Salvarani FM(4), Moreira AN(1), Conceicao FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico/Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal de 
Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico/Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal de 
Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: marcosferreiravet@gmail.com.
(3)Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico/Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal de 
Pelotas, RS, Brazil; Instituto Federal Sul-rio-grandense, IFSul, Campus Pelotas, 
RS, Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal Do Pará, Castanhal, 
CEP 68740-970, Pará, Brazil.

Beta toxins (CPB) produced by Clostridium perfringens type B and C cause various 
diseases in animals, and the use of toxoids is an important prophylactic measure 
against such diseases. Promising recombinant toxoids have been developed 
recently. However, both soluble and insoluble proteins expressed in Escherichia 
coli can interfere with the production and immunogenicity of these antigens. In 
this context, bioinformatics tools have been used to design new versions of the 
beta toxin, and levels of expression and solubility were evaluated in different 
strains of E. coli. The immunogenicity in sheep was assessed using the molecule 
with the greatest potential that was selected on analyzing these results. In 
silico analyzes, greater mRNA stability (-169.70 kcal/mol), solubility (-0.755), 
and better tertiary structure (-0.12) were shown by rCPB-C. None of the strains 
of E. coli expressed rFH8-CPB, but a high level of expression and solubility was 
shown by rCPB-C. Higher levels of total and neutralizing anti-CPB antibodies 
were observed in sheep inoculated with bacterins containing rCPB-C. Thus, this 
study suggests that due to higher productivity of rCPB-C in E. coli and 
immunogenicity, it is considered as the most promising molecule for the 
production of a recombinant vaccine against diseases caused by the beta toxin 
produced by C. perfringens type B and C.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2021.102326
PMID: 33508438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


51. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Jul;183:105856. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105856. Epub 
2021 Feb 25.

Optimization strategies for expression and purification of soluble N-terminal 
domain of human centriolar protein SAS-6 in Escherichia coli.

Maddi ER(1), Natesh R(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biology, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research 
Thiruvananthapuram, Thiruvananthapuram, 695551, Kerala, India.
(2)School of Biology, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research 
Thiruvananthapuram, Thiruvananthapuram, 695551, Kerala, India. Electronic 
address: natesh@iisertvm.ac.in.

Spindle assembly abnormal protein 6 (SAS-6), a highly conserved centriolar 
protein, constitutes the center of the cartwheel assembly that scaffolds 
centrioles early in their biogenesis. Abnormalities in cartwheel assembly lead 
to chromosomal dysfunctions. The molecular structure of human SAS-6 (HsSAS-6) 
and cartwheel hub and how they direct centriole symmetry is unknown. No crystal 
structure of wildtype HsSAS-6 has been reported to date, since soluble 
recombinant partial/full-length HsSAS-6 expression and purification posed grand 
challenges. In the present study we have explored optimization of ten different 
N terminal SAS-6 fusion proteins expression in a variety of E. coli hosts. 
During optimization we have included some of the most commonly used purification 
tags: Histidine tag, maltose-binding protein (MBP), small ubiquitin-related 
modifier (SUMO) tag and modified MBP tag with surface entropy reduction 
mutations. We demonstrate several levels of tag assisted solubility and stable 
expression strategies. We find that the MBP tag accompanied by Surface Entropy 
Reduction mutations (MBP/SER) in a fixed arm approach rescues the folded SAS-6N 
protein with significantly improved solubility. This expression of HsSAS-6N in 
E. coli Rosetta DE3 pLysS expression strain gave rise to high protein expression 
yielding around 6.0-11.5 mg of soluble protein per liter of growth culture.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105856
PMID: 33640460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Methods Mol Biol. 2020;2077:19-36. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9884-5_2.

A High-Throughput Strategy for Recombinant Protein Expression and Solubility 
Screen in Escherichia coli : A Case of Sensor Histidine Kinase.

Szmitkowska A(1), Pekárová B(1), Hejátko J(2).

Author information:
(1)Central European Institute of Technology and National Centre for Biomolecular 
Research, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)Central European Institute of Technology and National Centre for Biomolecular 
Research, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic. 
hejatko@sci.muni.cz.

Determining conditions optimal for host growth, maximal protein yield, and lysis 
buffer composition is of critical importance for the efficient purification of 
soluble and well-folded recombinant proteins suitable for functional and/or 
structural studies. Small-scale optimization of conditions for protein 
production and stability saves time, labor, and costs. Here we describe a 
protocol for quick protein production and solubility screen using TissueLyser II 
system from Qiagen enabling simultaneous processing of 96 protein samples, with 
application to recombinant proteins encompassing two intracellular domains of 
ethylene-recognizing sensor histidine kinase ETHYLENE RESPONSE1 (ETR1) from 
Arabidopsis thaliana. We demonstrate that conditions for expression and cell 
lysis found in our small-scale screen allow successful large-scale production of 
pure and functional domains of sensor histidine kinase, providing a strategy 
potentially transferable to other similar catalytic domains.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9884-5_2
PMID: 31707649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 Mar;45(3):175-185. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-018-2012-x. Epub 2018 Jan 24.

Engineering co-culture system for production of apigetrin in Escherichia coli.

Thuan NH(1), Chaudhary AK(2), Van Cuong D(3), Cuong NX(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Molecular Biology, Duy Tan University, 03 Quang Trung Street, 
Haichau District, Danang, Vietnam. nguyenhuythuan@dtu.edu.vn.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 
Omaha, NE, 68198, USA.
(3)Faculty of Biotechnology and Food Technology, Thainguyen University of 
Agriculture and Forestry, Thainguyen, Vietnam.
(4)Lab of Marine Medicinal Materials, Institute of Marine Biochemistry (IMBC), 
Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology (VAST), 18 Hoang Quoc Viet, Hanoi, 
Vietnam.

Microbial cells have extensively been utilized to produce value-added bioactive 
compounds. Based on advancement in protein engineering, DNA recombinant 
technology, genome engineering, and metabolic remodeling, the microbes can be 
re-engineered to produce industrially and medicinally important platform 
chemicals. The emergence of co-culture system which reduces the metabolic burden 
and allows parallel optimization of the engineered pathway in a modular fashion 
restricting the formation of undesired byproducts has become an alternative way 
to synthesize and produce bioactive compounds. In this study, we present 
genetically engineered E. coli-based co-culture system to the de novo synthesis 
of apigetrin (APG), an apigenin-7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside of apigenin. The culture 
system consists of an upstream module including 4-coumarate: CoA ligase (4CL), 
chalcone synthase, chalcone flavanone isomerase (CHS, CHI), and flavone synthase 
I (FNSI) to synthesize apigenin (API) from p-coumaric acid (PCA). Whereas, the 
downstream system contains a metabolizing module to enhance the production of 
UDP-glucose and expression of glycosyltransferase (PaGT3) to convert API into 
APG. To accomplish this improvement in titer, the initial inoculum ratio of 
strains for making the co-culture system, temperature, and media component was 
optimized. Following large-scale production, a yield of 38.5 µM (16.6 mg/L) of 
APG was achieved. In overall, this study provided an efficient tool to 
synthesize bioactive compounds in microbial cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-018-2012-x
PMID: 29362971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Front Microbiol. 2021 Nov 29;12:779541. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2021.779541. 
eCollection 2021.

The Protocatechuate 3,4-Dioxygenase Solubility (PCDS) Tag Enhances the 
Expression and Solubility of Heterogenous Proteins in Escherichia coli.

Zou L(1), Li S(1), Li N(2), Ruan SL(2), Chen J(1), Wu J(1), Yan D(1), Chao 
HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, Wuhan Polytechnic University, Wuhan, 
China.
(2)Daye Public Inspection and Test Centre, Huangshi, China.

Escherichia coli has been developed as the most common host for recombinant 
protein expression. Unfortunately, there are still some proteins that are 
resistant to high levels of heterologous soluble expression in E. coli. Protein 
and peptide fusion tags are one of the most important methods for increasing 
target protein expression and seem to influence the expression efficiency and 
solubility as well. In this study, we identify a short 15-residue enhancing 
solubility peptide, the PCDS (protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase solubility) tag, 
which enhances heterologous protein expression in E. coli. This PCDS tag is a 
45-bp long sequence encoding a peptide tag involved in the soluble expression of 
protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, encoded by the pcaHG98 genes of Pseudomonas 
putida NCIMB 9866. The 45-bp sequence was also beneficial for pcaHG98 gene 
amplification. This tag was shown to be necessary for the heterologous soluble 
expression of PcaHG98 in E. coli. Purified His6-PcaHG98e04-PCDS exhibited an 
activity of 205.63±14.23U/mg against protocatechuate as a substrate, and this 
activity was not affected by a PCDS tag. This PCDS tag has been fused to the 
mammalian yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) to construct YFP-PCDS without its 
termination codons and YFPt-PCDS with. The total protein expressions of YFP-PCDS 
and YFPt-PCDS were significantly amplified up to 1.6-fold and 2-fold, 
respectively, compared to YFP alone. Accordingly, His6-YFP-PCDS and 
His6-YFPt-PCDS had 1.6-fold and 3-fold higher soluble protein yields, 
respectively, than His6-YFP expressed under the same conditions. His6-YFP, 
His6-YFP-PCDS, and His6-YFPt-PCDS also showed consistent fluorescence emission 
spectra, with a peak at 530nm over a scanning range from 400 to 700nm. These 
results indicated that the use of the PCDS tag is an effective way to improve 
heterologous protein expression in E. coli.

Copyright © 2021 Zou, Li, Li, Ruan, Chen, Wu, Yan and Chao.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2021.779541
PMCID: PMC8667622
PMID: 34912319

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


55. Res Pharm Sci. 2019 Dec 11;14(6):554-565. doi: 10.4103/1735-5362.272564. 
eCollection 2019 Dec.

Efficient expression of EpEX in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli using 
thioredoxin fusion protein.

Rasooli F(1), Hashemi A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, I.R. Iran.
(2)Protein Technology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, I.R. Iran.

Recombinant epithelial cell adhesion molecule extracellular domain (EpEX) has a 
high potential as a candidate for passive and active immunotherapy as well as 
cancer vaccination. In the present study, EpEX was expressed as a thioredoxin 
fusion protein in Escherichia coli (E. coli). The effect of different hosts and 
expression conditions on the expression level of the fusion protein was also 
evaluated. Moreover, the effect of temperature and 
isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) concentration on protein solubility 
was assessed. The codon optimized-synthetic gene was cloned into pET32a (+) 
expression vector and transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3), Rosetta™ (DE3), and 
Origami™ (DE3). The protein expression was confirmed using sodium dodecyl 
sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and western blotting. 
Lowering the expression temperature to 16 °C and IPTG concentration to 0.5 mM 
also dramatically increased the volumetric productivity of the fusion protein. 
In optimum culture condition, high-level expression of the target fusion protein 
was detected in Rosetta™ (DE3) and Origami™ (DE3) (207 and 334 μg/mL, 
respectively), though they were expressed as inclusion bodies. No improvement 
was observed in the solubility of the fusion protein by reducing the temperature 
or IPTG concentration even when expressed in a TrxB/gor mutant strain. Results 
showed that Trx tag combined with other strategies utilized here could be 
effective to achieve high level of protein production but not effective in 
solubility improvement. However, new approaches might be necessary to enhance 
the solubility of EpEX in the E. coli system.

Copyright: © 2019 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.

DOI: 10.4103/1735-5362.272564
PMCID: PMC6937747
PMID: 32038735


56. BMC Biotechnol. 2019 May 9;19(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s12896-019-0520-z.

Surface patches on recombinant erythropoietin predict protein solubility: 
engineering proteins to minimise aggregation.

Carballo-Amador MA(1), McKenzie EA(2), Dickson AJ(3), Warwicker J(4).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California, Km. 103 
Carretera Tijuana-Ensenada, Pedregal Playitas, 22860, Ensenada, Baja California, 
Mexico.
(2)School of Chemistry, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, University of 
Manchester, 131 Princess Street, Manchester, M1 7DN, UK.
(3)Faculty of Science and Engineering, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, 
University of Manchester, 131 Princess Street, Manchester, M1 7DN, UK.
(4)School of Chemistry, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, University of 
Manchester, 131 Princess Street, Manchester, M1 7DN, UK. 
j.warwicker@manchester.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Protein solubility characteristics are important determinants of 
success for recombinant proteins in relation to expression, purification, 
storage and administration. Escherichia coli offers a cost-efficient expression 
system. An important limitation, whether for biophysical studies or 
industrial-scale production, is the formation of insoluble protein aggregates in 
the cytoplasm. Several strategies have been implemented to improve soluble 
expression, ranging from modification of culture conditions to inclusion of 
solubility-enhancing tags.
RESULTS: Surface patch analysis has been applied to predict amino acid changes 
that can alter the solubility of expressed recombinant human erythropoietin 
(rHuEPO) in E. coli, a factor that has importance for both yield and subsequent 
downstream processing of recombinant proteins. A set of rHuEPO proteins (rHuEPO 
E13K, F48D, R150D, and F48D/R150D) was designed (from the framework of wild-type 
protein, rHuEPO WT, via amino acid mutations) that varied in terms of 
positively-charged patches. A variant predicted to promote aggregation (rHuEPO 
E13K) decreased solubility significantly compared to rHuEPO WT. In contrast, 
variants predicted to diminish aggregation (rHuEPO F48D, R150D, and F48D/R150D) 
increased solubility up to 60% in relation to rHuEPO WT.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings are discussed in the wider context of biophysical 
calculations applied to the family of EPO orthologues, yielding a diverse range 
of calculated values. It is suggested that combining such calculations with 
naturally-occurring sequence variation, and 3D model generation, could lead to a 
valuable tool for protein solubility design.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-019-0520-z
PMCID: PMC6507049
PMID: 31072369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


57. IUBMB Life. 2020 Nov;72(11):2391-2399. doi: 10.1002/iub.2358. Epub 2020 Aug 22.

Mass production of active recombinant Chryseobacterium proteolyticum protein 
glutaminase in Escherichia coli using a sequential dual expression system and 
one-step purification.

Lu X(1)(2), Poon TCW(1), Zhang H(2).

Author information:
(1)Pilot Laboratory, Institute of Translational Medicine, Centre for Precision 
Medicine Research and Training, Faculty of Health sciences, University of Macau, 
Macau, China.
(2)Department of Biology, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Cell 
Microenvironment and Disease Research and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Cell 
Microenvironment, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, 
China.

Protein glutaminase (PG) is an enzyme that specifically catalyzes the 
deamidation of glutamine residues on proteins or peptides, remarkably improving 
the solubility, emulsification and foaming properties of food proteins and, 
thereby, conferring great potential in food industry applications. PG is 
primarily produced from wild strains of Chryseobacterium proteolyticum and the 
low enzyme production yield restricts large-scale industrial applications. In 
this context, by evaluating different cleavage site insertions between the 
pro-region and mature domain of PG as well as different linkers flanking the 
cleavage site, an E. coli expression and purification protocol has been 
developed to produce active recombinant PG. To simplify the production workflow, 
we developed a sequential dual expression system. More than 15 mg of pure and 
active PG was obtained from 1 L of shaking-flask bacteria culture by one-step 
nickel affinity chromatography purification. The enzymatic characteristics of 
the recombinant PG protein were similar to those of native PG. For the 
deamidation effect of recombinant PG, the deamidation degree (DD) of gliadin 
reached up to 67% and the solubility increased 84-fold. Thus, this study 
provides a practical approach to mass producing active PG proteins and 
investigates its potential applications on food proteins.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.2358
PMID: 32827356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Bioresour Technol. 2018 Jan;247:1253-1257. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2017.10.014. 
Epub 2017 Oct 12.

Optimization of hexanoic acid production in recombinant Escherichia coli by 
precise flux rebalancing.

Kim SG(1), Jang S(1), Lim JH(2), Jeon BS(3), Kim J(4), Kim KH(4), Sang BI(3), 
Jung GY(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, 77 Cheongam-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongbuk 37673, Republic of Korea.
(2)School of Interdisciplinary Bioscience and Bioengineering, Pohang University 
of Science and Technology, 77 Cheongam-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongbuk 37673, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Hanyang University, 222 Wangshimni-ro, 
Seongdong-gu, Seoul 04763, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School, Korea University, Seoul 02841, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, 77 Cheongam-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongbuk 37673, Republic of Korea; 
School of Interdisciplinary Bioscience and Bioengineering, Pohang University of 
Science and Technology, 77 Cheongam-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongbuk 37673, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: gyjung@postech.ac.kr.

The aim of this study is to demonstrate that rebalancing of metabolic fluxes at 
acetyl-CoA branch node can substantially improve the titer and productivity of 
hexanoic acid in recombinant Escherichia coli strains. First, a hexanoic 
acid-producing E. coli strain was constructed by expressing genes encoding 
β-ketothiolase (BktB) from Cupriavidus necator and acetyl-CoA transferase (ACT) 
from Megasphaera sp. MH in a butyric acid producer strain. Next, metabolic flux 
was optimized at the acetyl-CoA branch node by fine-tuning the expression level 
of the gene for acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase (AtoB). Four synthetic 
5'-untranslated regions were designed for atoB using UTR Designer to modulate 
the expression level of the gene. Notably, the productivity of the optimized 
strain (14.7 mg/L/h) was the highest among recombinant E. coli strains in 
literature when using a similar inoculum size for fermentation. These results 
show that fine-tuning the expression level of atoB is critical for production of 
hexanoic acid.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2017.10.014
PMID: 29054557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Vis Exp. 2015 Feb 5;(96):52431. doi: 10.3791/52431.

The multifaceted benefits of protein co-expression in Escherichia coli.

Stefan A(1), Ceccarelli A(2), Conte E(2), Montón Silva A(2), Hochkoeppler A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, University of Bologna; CSGI, 
Department of Chemistry, University of Firenze.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, University of Bologna.
(3)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, University of Bologna; CSGI, 
Department of Chemistry, University of Firenze; a.hochkoeppler@unibo.it.

We report here that the expression of protein complexes in vivo in Escherichia 
coli can be more convenient than traditional reconstitution experiments in 
vitro. In particular, we show that the poor solubility of Escherichia coli DNA 
polymerase III ε subunit (featuring 3'-5' exonuclease activity) is highly 
improved when the same protein is co-expressed with the α and θ subunits 
(featuring DNA polymerase activity and stabilizing ε, respectively). We also 
show that protein co-expression in E. coli can be used to efficiently test the 
competence of subunits from different bacterial species to associate in a 
functional protein complex. We indeed show that the α subunit of Deinococcus 
radiodurans DNA polymerase III can be co-expressed in vivo with the ε subunit of 
E. coli. In addition, we report on the use of protein co-expression to modulate 
mutation frequency in E. coli. By expressing the wild-type ε subunit under the 
control of the araBAD promoter (arabinose-inducible), and co-expressing the 
mutagenic D12A variant of the same protein, under the control of the lac 
promoter (inducible by isopropyl-thio-β-D-galactopyranoside, IPTG), we were able 
to alter the E. coli mutation frequency using appropriate concentrations of the 
inducers arabinose and IPTG. Finally, we discuss recent advances and future 
challenges of protein co-expression in E. coli.

DOI: 10.3791/52431
PMCID: PMC4354606
PMID: 25742393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Aug;46(8):1129-1138. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-019-02184-4. Epub 2019 May 6.

Improving an Escherichia coli-based biocatalyst for terpenol glycosylation by 
variation of the expression system.

Rüdiger J(1), Schwab W(2).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology of Natural Product, Technical University Munich, 
Liesel-Beckmann-Str. 1, 85354, Freising, Germany.
(2)Biotechnology of Natural Product, Technical University Munich, 
Liesel-Beckmann-Str. 1, 85354, Freising, Germany. wilfried.schwab@tum.de.

Glycosides are becoming increasingly more relevant for various industries as 
low-cost whole-cell-biocatalysts are now available for the manufacture of 
glycosides. However, there is still a need to optimize the biocatalysts. The aim 
of this work was to increase the titre of terpenyl glucosides in 
biotransformation assays with E. coli expressing VvGT14ao, a glycosyltransferase 
gene from grape (Vitis vinifera). Seven expression plasmids differing in the 
resistance gene, origin of replication, promoter sequence, and fusion protein 
tag were generated and transformed into four different E. coli expression 
strains, resulting in 18 strains that were tested for glycosylation efficiency 
with terpenols and a phenol. E. coli BL21(DE3)/pET-SUMO_VvGT14ao yielded the 
highest titres. The product concentration was improved 8.6-fold compared with E. 
coli BL21(DE3)pLysS/pET29a_VvGT14ao. The selection of a small 
solubility-enhancing protein tag and exploitation of the T7 polymerase-induction 
system allowed the formation of increased levels of functional recombinant 
protein, thereby improving the performance of the whole-cell biocatalyst.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-019-02184-4
PMCID: PMC7088306
PMID: 31062116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Mar;95:211-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.01.001. Epub 2014 
Jan 9.

Soluble expression and partial purification of recombinant human erythropoietin 
from E. coli.

Jeong TH(1), Son YJ(2), Ryu HB(1), Koo BK(1), Jeong SM(1), Hoang P(1), Do BH(1), 
Song JA(1), Chong SH(1), Robinson RC(3), Choe H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul 138-736, South Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Sunchon National University, Suncheon, Jeonnam 
540-742, South Korea.
(3)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, Proteos, 61 Biopolis Drive, 
Singapore 138673, Singapore; Department of Biochemistry, National University of 
Singapore, 8 Medical Drive, Singapore 117597, Singapore; School of Biological 
Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 60 Nanyang Drive, Singapore 637551, 
Singapore.
(4)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul 138-736, South Korea. Electronic address: 
hchoe@ulsan.ac.kr.

Human erythropoietin (hEpo) is an essential regulator of erythrocyte production 
that induces the division and differentiation of erythroid progenitor cells in 
the bone marrow into mature erythrocytes. It is widely used for the treatment of 
anemia resulting from chronic kidney disease, chemotherapy, and cancer-related 
therapies. Active hEpo, and hEpo analogs, have been purified primarily from 
mammalian cells, which has several disadvantages, including low yields and high 
production costs. Although an Escherichia coli (E. coli) expression system may 
provide economic production of therapeutic proteins, it has not been used for 
the production of recombinant hEpo (rhEpo) because it aggregates in inclusion 
bodies in the E. coli cytoplasm and is not modified post-translationally. We 
investigated the soluble overexpression of active rhEpo with various protein 
tags in E. coli, and found out that several tags increased the solubility of 
rhEpo. Among them maltose binding protein (MBP)-tagged rhEpo was purified using 
affinity and gel filtration columns. Non-denaturing electrophoresis and 
MALDI-TOF MS analysis demonstrated that the purified rhEpo had two 
intra-disulfide bonds identical to those of the native hEpo. An in vitro 
proliferation assay showed that rhEpo purified from E. coli had similar 
biological activity as rhEpo derived from CHO cells. Therefore, we report for 
the first time that active rhEpo was overexpressed as a soluble form in the 
cytoplasm of E. coli and purified it in simple purification steps. We hope that 
our results offer opportunities for progress in rhEpo therapeutics.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.01.001
PMID: 24412408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2019 Mar 22;12:62. doi: 10.1186/s13068-019-1408-9. 
eCollection 2019.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for the production of butyric acid at 
high titer and productivity.

Wang L(1), Chauliac D(1)(2), Moritz BE(1), Zhang G(1)(3), Ingram LO(1), 
Shanmugam KT(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Microbiology and Cell Science, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32611 USA.
(2)Present Address: Galactic, Brussels, Belgium.
(3)2State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, College of Life 
Science, Hubei University, Wuhan, 430062 China.

BACKGROUND: Several anaerobic bacteria produce butyric acid, a commodity 
chemical with use in chemical, pharmaceutical, food and feed industries, using 
complex media with acetate as a co-product. Butyrate titer of various 
recombinant Escherichia coli did not exceed 10 g l-1 in batch fermentations in 
any of the media tested.
RESULTS: A recombinant E. coli (strain LW393) that produced butyrate as the 
major fermentation product was constructed with genes from E. coli, Clostridium 
acetobutylicum and Treponema denticola. Strain LW393 produced 323 ± 6 mM 
(28.4 ± 0.4 g l-1) butyric acid in batch fermentations in mineral salt medium 
with glucose as C source at a yield of 0.37 ± 0.01 g (g glucose consumed)-1. 
Butyrate accounted for 90% of the total products produced by the culture. 
Supplementing this medium with yeast extract further increased butyric acid 
titer to 375 ± 4 mM. Average volumetric productivity of butyrate with xylose as 
C source was 0.89 ± 0.07 g l-1 h-1.
CONCLUSIONS: The butyrate titer reported in this study is about 2.5-3-times 
higher than the values reported for other recombinant E. coli and this is 
achieved in mineral salt medium with an expectation of lower purification and 
production cost of butyrate.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-019-1408-9
PMCID: PMC6429758
PMID: 30949238

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


63. Microb Cell Fact. 2021 Dec 28;20(1):232. doi: 10.1186/s12934-021-01725-w.

A novel protein fusion partner, carbohydrate-binding module family 66, to 
enhance heterologous protein expression in Escherichia coli.

Ko H(#)(1), Kang M(#)(1)(2), Kim MJ(1), Yi J(1), Kang J(1)(2), Bae JH(1), Sohn 
JH(3)(4), Sung BH(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Synthetic Biology and Bioengineering Research Center, Korea Research 
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), 125 Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biosystems and Bioengineering, KRIBB School of Biotechnology, 
Korea University of Science and Technology (UST), 217 Gajeong-ro, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon, 34113, Republic of Korea.
(3)Synthetic Biology and Bioengineering Research Center, Korea Research 
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), 125 Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea. sohn4090@kribb.re.kr.
(4)Department of Biosystems and Bioengineering, KRIBB School of Biotechnology, 
Korea University of Science and Technology (UST), 217 Gajeong-ro, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon, 34113, Republic of Korea. sohn4090@kribb.re.kr.
(5)Synthetic Biology and Bioengineering Research Center, Korea Research 
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), 125 Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea. bhsung@kribb.re.kr.
(6)Department of Biosystems and Bioengineering, KRIBB School of Biotechnology, 
Korea University of Science and Technology (UST), 217 Gajeong-ro, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon, 34113, Republic of Korea. bhsung@kribb.re.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Proteins with novel functions or advanced activities developed by 
various protein engineering techniques must have sufficient solubility to retain 
their bioactivity. However, inactive protein aggregates are frequently produced 
during heterologous protein expression in Escherichia coli. To prevent the 
formation of inclusion bodies, fusion tag technology has been commonly employed, 
owing to its good performance in soluble expression of target proteins, ease of 
application, and purification feasibility. Thus, researchers have continuously 
developed novel fusion tags to expand the expression capacity of high-value 
proteins in E. coli.
RESULTS: A novel fusion tag comprising carbohydrate-binding module 66 (CBM66) 
was developed for the soluble expression of heterologous proteins in E. coli. 
The target protein solubilization capacity of the CBM66 tag was verified using 
seven proteins that are poorly expressed or form inclusion bodies in E. coli: 
four human-derived signaling polypeptides and three microbial enzymes. Compared 
to native proteins, CBM66-fused proteins exhibited improved solubility and high 
production titer. The protein-solubilizing effect of the CBM66 tag was compared 
with that of two commercial tags, maltose-binding protein and 
glutathione-S-transferase, using poly(ethylene terephthalate) hydrolase (PETase) 
as a model protein; CBM66 fusion resulted in a 3.7-fold higher expression amount 
of soluble PETase (approximately 370 mg/L) compared to fusion with the other 
commercial tags. The intact PETase was purified from the fusion protein upon 
serial treatment with enterokinase and affinity chromatography using 
levan-agarose resin. The bioactivity of the three proteins assessed was 
maintained even when the CBM66 tag was fused.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the CBM66 tag to improve soluble protein expression 
facilitates the easy and economic production of high-value proteins in E. coli.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-021-01725-w
PMCID: PMC8715580
PMID: 34963459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


64. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 28;30(1):109-117. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1909.09028.

Addition of an N-Terminal Poly-Glutamate Fusion Tag Improves Solubility and 
Production of Recombinant TAT-Cre Recombinase in Escherichia coli.

Kim AH(1), Lee S(2), Jeon S(1), Kim GT(1), Lee EJ(3), Kim D(3), Kim Y(2), Park 
TS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Gachon University, Sungnam 13120, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Research and Development, LumiMac, Inc., Seoul 05844, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 
03722, Republic of Korea.

Cre recombinase is widely used to manipulate DNA sequences for both in vitro and 
in vivo research. Attachment of a trans-activator of transcription (TAT) 
sequence to Cre allows TATCre to penetrate the cell membrane, and the addition 
of a nuclear localization signal (NLS) helps the enzyme to translocate into the 
nucleus. Since the yield of recombinant TAT-Cre is limited by formation of 
inclusion bodies, we hypothesized that the positively charged arginine-rich TAT 
sequence causes the inclusion body formation, whereas its neutralization by the 
addition of a negatively charged sequence improves solubility of the protein. To 
prove this, we neutralized the positively charged TAT sequence by proximally 
attaching a negatively charged poly-glutamate (E12) sequence. We found that the 
E12 tag improved the solubility and yield of E12-TAT-NLS-Cre (E12-TAT-Cre) 
compared with those of TAT-NLS-Cre (TATCre) when expressed in E. coli. 
Furthermore, the growth of cells expressing E12-TAT-Cre was increased compared 
with that of the cells expressing TAT-Cre. Efficacy of the purified TATCre was 
confirmed by a recombination test on a floxed plasmid in a cell-free system and 
293 FT cells. Taken together, our results suggest that attachment of the E12 
sequence to TAT-Cre improves its solubility during expression in E. coli 
(possibly by neutralizing the ionic-charge effects of the TAT sequence) and 
consequently increases the yield. This method can be applied to the production 
of transducible proteins for research and therapeutic purposes.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1909.09028
PMID: 31693834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. APMIS. 2018 Apr;126(4):320-328. doi: 10.1111/apm.12815. Epub 2018 Feb 20.

Entrapment of LTB protein in alginate nanoparticles protects against 
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.

Kordbacheh E(1), Nazarian S(1), Hajizadeh A(1), Sadeghi D(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, Imam Hossein University, Tehran, 
Iran.

Vaccine delivery vehicles are just as important in vaccine efficiency. Through 
the progress in nanotechnology, various nanoparticles have been evaluated as 
carriers for these substances. Among them, alginate nanoparticles are a good 
choice because of their biodegradability, biocompatibility, ease of production, 
etc. In this study, feasibility of alginate nanoparticles (NPs) such as 
recombinant LTB from Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) carrier was 
investigated. To do this, the eltb gene was cloned and expressed in E. coli BL21 
(DE3) host cells, and a Ni-NTA column purified the protein. NPs were achieved 
through ion gelation method in the presence of LTB protein and CaCl2 as the 
cross-Linker and NPs were characterized physicochemically. Balb/C mice groups 
were immunized with LTB-entrapped NPs or LTB with adjuvant and immunogenicity 
was assessed by evaluating IgG titer. Finally, the neutralization of antibodies 
was evaluated by GM1 binding and loop assays. LTB protein was expressed and 
efficiently entrapped into the alginate NPs. The size of NPs was less than 
50 nm, and entrapment efficiency was 80%. Western blotting showed maintenance of 
the molecular weight and antigenicity of the released protein from NPs. 
Administration of LTB-entrapped NPs stimulated antibody responses in immunized 
mice. Immunization induced protection against LT toxin of ETEC in ileal loops 
and inhibits enterotoxin binding to GM1-gangliosides. Alginate NPs are also 
appropriate vehicle for antigen delivery purpose. Moreover because of their 
astonishing properties, they have the potential to serve as an adjuvant.

© 2018 APMIS. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apm.12815
PMID: 29460309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Immunoassay Immunochem. 2021 Sep 3;42(5):525-542. doi: 
10.1080/15321819.2021.1906890. Epub 2021 Apr 9.

Designing and determining immunogenicity of a recombinant protein due to 
producing a new vaccine against Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli containing CfaE 
and CotD subunits.

Roghanian P(1), Zare Karizi S(2), Motamedi MJ(3), Kazemi R(3), Khoobbakht D(1), 
Amani J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Islamic Azad University, Science and Research Branch, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, School of Biological Science, 
Varamin-Pishva, Branch Islamic Azad University, Varamin, Iran.
(3)Molecular Biology Department, Green Gene Company, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings 
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is one of the most common bacterial 
causes of mortalities in developing countries due to diarrhea. Since mucosal 
immune responses to CFs can prevent the disease, a chimeric protein containing 
ETEC's CFA/I (CfaE) tip subunits and CS2 (CotD) sub-structural units is 
developed to produce effective vaccine. Using bioinformatics tools, the chimeric 
construct was analyzed and then the optimized gene was synthesized and expressed 
in E. coli. The recombinant protein was expressed and purified by the Ni-NTA 
chromatography column and confirmed by anti-his tag antibody by western 
blotting. Mice were immunized with recombinant protein, and the IgG and IgA 
antibodies' titrations of the sera were analyzed by ELISA. In addition, the 
immunogenicity and protective efficacy against the live ETEC bacteria in the 
challenge test were determined. Western blot analysis verified the chimeric 
protein expression of CotD-CfaE. The outcome of ELISA was a substantial 
improvement in the IgG antibody titer in immunized mice. In a live ETEC 
challenge, the survival percentage of 30% was shown for immunized mice. The 
developed recombinant chimeric protein could be suggested as an effective 
component in producing an efficient vaccine against Enterotoxigenic E. coli with 
other crucial subunits, different immunization route, and other factors.

DOI: 10.1080/15321819.2021.1906890
PMID: 33834940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54933. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054933. Epub 2013 Jan 23.

Recombinant production of human interleukin 6 in Escherichia coli.

Nausch H(1), Huckauf J, Koslowski R, Meyer U, Broer I, Mikschofsky H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agrobiotechnology, Agricultural and Environmental Faculty, 
University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.

In this study, we compared basic expression approaches for the efficient 
expression of bioactive recombinant human interleukin-6 (IL6), as an example for 
a difficult-to-express protein. We tested these approaches in a laboratory scale 
in order to pioneer the commercial production of this protein in Escherichia 
coli (E. coli). Among the various strategies, which were tested under Research 
and Development (R&D) conditions, aggregation-prone IL6 was solubilized most 
effectively by co-expressing cytoplasmic chaperones. Expression of a 
Glutathion-S-Transferase (GST) fusion protein was not efficient to increase IL6 
solubility. Alteration of the cultivation temperature significantly increased 
the solubility in both cases, whereas reduced concentrations of IPTG to induce 
expression of the T7lac-promotor only had a positive effect on 
chaperone-assisted expression. The biological activity was comparable to that of 
commercial IL6. Targeting the expressed protein to an oxidizing environment was 
not effective in the generation of soluble IL6. Taken together, the presence of 
chaperones and a lowered cultivation temperature seem effective to isolate large 
quantities of soluble IL6. This approach led to in vivo soluble, functional 
protein fractions and reduces purification and refolding requirements caused by 
downstream purification procedures. The final yield of soluble recombinant 
protein averaged approximately 2.6 mg IL6/liter of cell culture. These findings 
might be beneficial for the development of the large-scale production of IL6 
under the conditions of current good manufacturing practice (cGMP).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054933
PMCID: PMC3553018
PMID: 23372793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have the 
following interests. Roswitha Koslowski and Udo Meyer are employed by BIOSERV 
GmbH. The experiments for this publication were done in cooperation BIOSERV 
GmbH. The company provided the equipment for the Bioassay in order to test the 
biological activity of plant-made C5a. There are no further patents, products in 
development or marketed products to declare. This does not alter the authors’ 
adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials, as 
detailed online in the guide for authors.


68. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e56582. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056582. Epub 2013 Feb 22.

Efficient E. coli expression strategies for production of soluble human 
crystallin ALDH3A1.

Voulgaridou GP(1), Mantso T, Chlichlia K, Panayiotidis MI, Pappa A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Democritus University of 
Thrace, University Campus, Dragana, Alexandroupolis, Greece.

Aldehyde dehydrogenase 3A1 (ALDH3A1) is a recently characterized corneal 
crystallin with its exact functions still being unclear. Expressing recombinant 
human ALDH3A1 has been difficult in Escherichia coli (E. coli) because of low 
solubility, yield and insufficient purity issues. In this report, we compared 
different E. coli expression strategies (namely the maltose binding protein; 
MBP- and the 6-his-tagged expression systems) under conditions of auto-induction 
and co-expression with E. coli's molecular chaperones where appropriate. Thus, 
we aimed to screen the efficiency of these expression strategies in order to 
improve solubility of recombinant ALDH3A1 when expressed in E. coli. We showed 
that the MBP- tagged expression in combination with lower-temperature culture 
conditions resulted in active soluble recombinant ALDH3A1. Expression of the 
fused 6-his tagged-ALDH3A1 protein resulted in poor solubility and neither 
lowering temperature culture conditions nor the auto-induction strategy improved 
its solubility. Furthermore, higher yield of soluble, active native form of 
6-his tagged-ALDH3A1 was facilitated through co-expression of the two groups of 
E. coli's molecular chaperones, GroES/GroEL and DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE. Convenient one 
step immobilized affinity chromatography methods were utilized to purify the 
fused ALDH3A1 hybrids. Both fusion proteins retained their biological activity 
and could be used directly without removing the fusion tags. Taken together, our 
results provide a rational option for producing sufficient amounts of soluble 
and active recombinant ALDH3A1 using the E. coli expression system for 
conducting functional studies towards elucidating the biological role(s) of this 
interesting corneal crystallin.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056582
PMCID: PMC3579847
PMID: 23451057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


69. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;800:173-86. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-349-3_12.

Resolving bottlenecks for recombinant protein expression in E. coli.

Peleg Y(1), Unger T.

Author information:
(1)Israel Structural Proteomics Center, Faculty of Biochemistry, Weizmann 
Institute of Science, Meyer Building, Rehovot, Israel. yoav.peleg@weizmann.ac.il

Escherichia coli is widely used as an expression system for production of 
recombinant proteins of prokaryotic and eukaryotic origin. A large body of 
knowledge has accumulated throughout the last few decades regarding expression 
of recombinant proteins in E. coli. However, despite this progress, protein 
production, primarily of eukaryotic origin, still remains a challenge. The 
biggest obstacle lies in obtaining large amounts of a given protein in a 
correctly folded form. Several strategies are being used to increase both yield 
and solubility. These include expression as fusion proteins, co-expression with 
molecular chaperones, or with a protein partner(s), and the use of multiple 
constructs for each protein. In this chapter, we focus on strategies for 
creating expression vectors, as well as on guidelines for improving recombinant 
protein solubility.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-349-3_12
PMID: 21964789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2017 Apr;101(7):2853-2864. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-016-8054-y. Epub 2016 Dec 16.

Recombinant expression and characterization of a L-amino acid oxidase from the 
fungus Rhizoctonia solani.

Hahn K(1), Neumeister K(1), Mix A(2), Kottke T(3), Gröger H(4), Fischer von 
Mollard G(5).

Author information:
(1)Biochemie III, Fakultät für Chemie, Universität Bielefeld, 
Universitätsstrasse 25, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(2)Anorganische Chemie und Strukturchemie, Fakultät für Chemie, Universität 
Bielefeld, Universitätsstrasse 25, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(3)Physikalische und Biophysikalische Chemie, Fakultät für Chemie, Universität 
Bielefeld, Universitätsstrasse 25, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(4)Organische Chemie I, Fakultät für Chemie, Universität Bielefeld, 
Universitätsstrasse 25, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(5)Biochemie III, Fakultät für Chemie, Universität Bielefeld, 
Universitätsstrasse 25, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany. 
gabriele.mollard@uni-bielefeld.de.

L-Amino acid oxidases (L-AAOs) catalyze the oxidative deamination of L-amino 
acids to the corresponding α-keto acids, ammonia, and hydrogen peroxide. L-AAOs 
are homodimeric enzymes with FAD as a non-covalently bound cofactor. They are of 
potential interest for biotechnological applications. However, heterologous 
expression has not succeeded in producing large quantities of active recombinant 
L-AAOs with a broad substrate spectrum so far. Here, we report the heterologous 
expression of an active L-AAO from the fungus Rhizoctonia solani in Escherichia 
coli as a fusion protein with maltose-binding protein (MBP) as a solubility tag. 
After purification, it was possible to remove the MBP-tag proteolytically 
without influencing the enzyme activity. MBP-rsLAAO1 and 9His-rsLAAO1 converted 
basic and large hydrophobic L-amino acids as well as methyl esters of these 
L-amino acids. The progress of the conversion of L-phenylalanine and L-leucine 
into the corresponding α-keto acids was determined by HPLC and 1H-NMR analysis 
of reaction mixtures, respectively. Enzymatic activity was stimulated 
50-100-fold by SDS treatment. K m values ranging from 0.9-10 mM and v max values 
from 3 to 10 U mg-1 were determined after SDS activation of 9His-rsLAAO1 for the 
best substrates. The enzyme displayed a broad pH optimum between pH 7.0 and 9.5. 
In summary, a successful overexpression of recombinant L-AAO in E. coli was 
established that results in a promising enzymatic activity and a broad substrate 
spectrum for biotechnological application.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-016-8054-y
PMID: 27986991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Microbiol Methods. 2015 Nov;118:113-22. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2015.08.017. Epub 
2015 Sep 1.

Enhancing recombinant protein solubility with ubiquitin-like small archeal 
modifying protein fusion partners.

Varga S(1), Pathare GR(2), Baka E(1), Boicu M(2), Kriszt B(3), Székács A(1), 
Zinzula L(2), Kukolya J(1), Nagy I(4).

Author information:
(1)Agro-Environmental Research Institute, National Agricultural Research and 
Innovation Centre, Department of Applied and Environmental Microbiology, H-1022 
Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Department of Molecular Structural 
Biology, D-82152 Martinsried (Planegg), Germany.
(3)Szent István University, Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, 
Institute of Aquaculture and Environmental Safety, Department of Environmental 
Safety and Ecotoxicology, H-2100 Gödöllő, Hungary.
(4)Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Department of Molecular Structural 
Biology, D-82152 Martinsried (Planegg), Germany. Electronic address: 
nagy@biochem.mpg.de.

A variety of protein expression tags with different biochemical properties has 
been used to enhance the yield and solubility of recombinant proteins. 
Ubiquitin, SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) and prokaryotic ubiquitin like 
MoaD (molybdopterin synthase, small subunit) fusion tags are getting more 
popular because of their small size. In this paper we report on the use of 
ubiquitin-like small archaeal modifier proteins (SAMPs) as fusion tags since 
they proved to increase expression yield, stability and solubility in our 
experiments. Equally important, they did not co-purify with proteins of the 
expression host and there was information that their specific JAB1/MPN/Mov34 
metalloenzyme (JAMM) protease can recognize the C-terminal VSGG sequence when 
SAMPs fused, either branched or linearly to target proteins, and cleave it 
specifically. SAMPs and JAMM proteases from Haloferax volcanii, Thermoplasma 
acidophilum, Methanococcoides burtonii and Nitrosopumilus maritimus were 
selected, cloned, expressed heterologously in Escherichia coli and tested as 
fusion tags and cleaving proteases, respectively. Investigated SAMPs enhanced 
protein expression and solubility on a wide scale. T. acidophilum SAMPs Ta0895 
and Ta01019 were the best performing tags and their effect was comparable to the 
widely used maltose binding protein (MBP) and N utilization substance protein A 
(NusA) tags. Moreover, H. volcanii SAMP Hvo_2619 contribution was mediocre, 
whereas M. burtonii Mbur_1415 could not be expressed. Out of four investigated 
JAMM proteases, only Hvo_2505 could cleave fusion tags. Interestingly, it was 
found active not only on its own partner substrate Hvo_2619, but it also cleaved 
off Ta0895.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2015.08.017
PMID: 26341610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Recent Pat Biotechnol. 2020;14(4):269-282. doi: 
10.2174/1872208314999200730115018.

Suitable Signal Peptides for Secretory Production of Recombinant Granulocyte 
Colony Stimulating Factor in Escherichia coli.

Tehrani SS(1)(2), Goodarzi G(1)(2)(3), Naghizadeh M(1)(2), Khatami SH(4), 
Movahedpour A(5)(6), Abbasi A(4), Shabaninejad Z(7)(8), Khalaf N(8), 
Taheri-Anganeh M(9), Savardashtaki A(5)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran
(2)Student Scientific Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, North Khorasan 
University of Medial Sciences, Bojnourd, Iran
(4)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran
(5)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Medical Sciences and 
Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran
(6)Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran
(7)Department of Nanobiotechnology, School of Basic Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran
(8)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran
(9)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Research Institute on Cellular and 
Molecular Medicine, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran
(10)Epilepsy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran

BACKGROUND: Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) expressed in 
engineered Escherichia coli (E. coli) as a recombinant protein is utilized as an 
adjunct to chemotherapy for improving neutropenia. Recombinant proteins 
overexpression may lead to the creation of inclusion bodies whose recovery is a 
tedious and costly process. To overcome the problem of inclusion bodies, 
secretory production might be used. To achieve a mature secretory protein 
product, suitable signal peptide (SP) selection is a vital step.
OBJECTIVE: In the present study, we aimed at in silico evaluation of proper SPs 
for secretory production of recombinant G-CSF in E. coli.
METHODS: Signal peptide website and UniProt were used to collect the SPs and 
G-CSF sequences. Then, SignalP were utilized in order to predict the SPs and 
location of their cleavage site. Physicochemical features and solubility were 
investigated by ProtParam and Protein-sol tools. Fusion proteins sub-cellular 
localization was predicted by ProtCompB.
RESULTS: LPP, ELBP, TSH, HST3, ELBH, AIDA and PET were excluded according to 
SignalP. The highest aliphatic index belonged to OMPC, TORT and THIB and PPA. 
Also, the highest GRAVY belonged to OMPC, ELAP, TORT, BLAT, THIB, and PSPE. 
Furthermore, G-CSF fused with all SPs were predicted as soluble fusion proteins 
except three SPs. Finally, we found OMPT, OMPF, PHOE, LAMB, SAT, and OMPP can 
translocate G-CSF into extracellular space.
CONCLUSION: Six SPs were suitable for translocating G-CSF into the extracellular 
media. Although growing data indicate that the bioinformatics approaches can 
improve the precision and accuracy of studies, further experimental 
investigations and recent patents explaining several inventions associated to 
the clinical aspects of SPs for secretory production of recombinant GCSF in E. 
coli are required for final validation.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1872208314999200730115018
PMID: 32838727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. FEBS J. 2011 Mar;278(5):729-39. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2010.07991.x. Epub 2011 
Jan 12.

Enhancing the protein production levels in Escherichia coli with a strong 
promoter.

Tegel H(1), Ottosson J, Hober S.

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology, Department of Proteomics, Royal Institute of 
Technology, AlbaNova University Center, Stockholm, Sweden.

In biotechnology, the use of Escherichia coli for recombinant protein production 
has a long tradition, although the optimal production conditions for certain 
proteins are still not evident. The most favorable conditions for protein 
production vary with the gene product. Temperature and induction conditions 
represent parameters that affect total protein production, as well as the amount 
of soluble protein. Furthermore, the choice of promoter and bacterial strain 
will have large effects on the production of the target protein. In the present 
study, the effects of three different promoters (T7, trc and lacUV5) on E. coli 
production of target proteins with different characteristics are presented. The 
total amount of target protein as well as the amount of soluble protein were 
analyzed, demonstrating the benefits of using a strong promoter such as T7. To 
understand the underlying causes, transcription levels have been correlated with 
the total amount of target protein and protein solubility in vitro has been 
correlated with the amount of soluble protein that is produced. In addition, the 
effects of two different E. coli strains, BL21(DE3) and Rosetta(DE3), on the 
expression pattern were analyzed. It is concluded that the regulation of protein 
production is a combination of the transcription and translation efficiencies. 
Other important parameters include the nucleotide-sequence itself and the 
solubility of the target protein.

© 2011 The Authors Journal compilation © 2011 FEBS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2010.07991.x
PMID: 21205203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Feb;142:25-31. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.09.013. Epub 
2017 Sep 27.

High-level expression of soluble recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli using 
an HE-maltotriose-binding protein fusion tag.

Han Y(1), Guo W(1), Su B(1), Guo Y(1), Wang J(1), Chu B(1), Yang G(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou 450002, Henan Province, PR China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou 450002, Henan Province, PR China. Electronic address: 
haubiochem@163.com.

Recombinant proteins are commonly expressed in prokaryotic expression systems 
for large-scale production. The use of genetically engineered affinity and 
solubility enhancing fusion proteins has increased greatly in recent years, and 
there now exists a considerable repertoire of these that can be used to enhance 
the expression, stability, solubility, folding, and purification of their fusion 
partner. Here, a modified histidine tag (HE) used as an affinity tag was 
employed together with a truncated maltotriose-binding protein (MBP; consisting 
of residues 59-433) from Pyrococcus furiosus as a solubility enhancing tag 
accompanying a tobacco etch virus protease-recognition site for protein 
expression and purification in Escherichia coli. Various proteins tagged at the 
N-terminus with HE-MBP(Pyr) were expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) cells to 
determine expression and solubility relative to those tagged with His6-MBP or 
His6-MBP(Pyr). Furthermore, four HE-MBP(Pyr)-fused proteins were purified by 
immobilized metal affinity chromatography to assess the affinity of HE with 
immobilized Ni2+. Our results showed that HE-MBP(Pyr) represents an attractive 
fusion protein allowing high levels of soluble expression and purification of 
recombinant protein in E. coli.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.09.013
PMID: 28963004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Microb Pathog. 2021 Sep;158:105087. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2021.105087. Epub 
2021 Jul 10.

In Silico designing and immunogenic production of the multimeric CfaB*ST, CfaE, 
LTB antigen as a peptide vaccine against Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.

Asmani F(1), Khavari-Nejad RA(1), Salmanian AH(2), Amani J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Tehran, Iran.
(3)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings 
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic 
address: jafar.amani@gmail.com.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is the most frequent bacterial cause of 
diarrhea particularly reported in children of developing countries and also 
travelers. Enterotoxins and colonization factor antigens (CFAs) are two major 
virulence factors in ETEC pathogenesis. Colonization factor antigen I (CFA/I) 
includes major pilin subunit CfaB, and a minor adhesive subunit (CfaE), and 
enterotoxins consisting of heat-labile toxin subunit B (LTB) and heat-stable 
toxin (ST). Chimeric proteins (CCL) carrying epitopes and adjuvant sequences 
increase the possibility of eliciting a broad cellular or effective immune 
response. In the present study, a chimeric candidate vaccine containing CfaB*ST, 
CfaE, and LTB (CCL) was designed via in silico techniques. This chimeric gene 
was synthesized by using codon usage of E. coli for increasing the expression of 
the recombinant protein. After designing the chimeric construct, it showed a 
high antigenicity index estimated by the vaxiJen server. Linear and 
conformational B-cell epitopes were identified and indicated suitable 
immunogenicity of this multimeric recombinant protein. Thermodynamic analyses 
for mRNA structures revealed the appropriate folding of the RNA representative 
good stability of this molecule. In silico scanning was done to predict the 3D 
structure of the protein, and modeling was validated using the Ramachandran plot 
analysis. The chimeric protein (rCCL) was expressed in a prokaryotic expression 
system (E. coli), purified, and analyzed for their immunogenic properties. It 
was revealed that the production of a high titer of antibody produced in 
immunized mice could neutralize the ETEC using the rabbit ileal loop tests. The 
results indicated that the protein inferred from the recombinant protein (rCCL) 
construct could act as a proper vaccine candidate against three critical 
causative agents of diarrheal bacteria at the same time.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2021.105087
PMID: 34256098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Microb Cell Fact. 2016 Jan 19;15:14. doi: 10.1186/s12934-016-0409-7.

Combinatorial engineering of hybrid mevalonate pathways in Escherichia coli for 
protoilludene production.

Yang L(1), Wang C(2), Zhou J(3)(4), Kim SW(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus Program), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, 660-701, Korea. yangyang8028121@hotmail.com.
(2)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus Program), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, 660-701, Korea. wangchonglong@outlook.com.
(3)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus Program), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, 660-701, Korea. jiazhou@hyit.edu.cn.
(4)Faculty of Life Science and Food Engineering, Huaiyin Institute of 
Technology, Huai'an, 223003, The People's Republic of China. 
jiazhou@hyit.edu.cn.
(5)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus Program), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, 660-701, Korea. swkim@gnu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Protoilludene is a valuable sesquiterpene and serves as a precursor 
for several medicinal compounds and antimicrobial chemicals. It can be 
synthesized by heterologous expression of protoilludene synthase in Escherichia 
coli with overexpression of mevalonate (MVA) or methylerythritol-phosphate (MEP) 
pathway, and farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) synthase. Here, we present E. coli as a 
cell factory for protoilludene production.
RESULTS: Protoilludene was successfully produced in E. coli by overexpression of 
a hybrid exogenous MVA pathway, endogenous FPP synthase (IspA), and 
protoilludene synthase (OMP7) of Omphalotus olearius. For improving 
protoilludene production, the MVA pathway was engineered to increase synthesis 
of building blocks isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl diphosphate 
(DMAPP) by sequential order permutation of the lower MVA portion (MvL), the 
alteration of promoters and copy numbers for the upper MVA portion (MvU), and 
the coordination of both portions, resulting in an efficient entire MVA pathway. 
To reduce the accumulation of mevalonate observed in the culture broth due to 
lower efficiency of the MvL than the MvU, the MvL was further engineered by 
homolog substitution with the corresponding genes from Staphylococcus aureus. 
Finally, the highest protoilludene production of 1199 mg/L was obtained from 
recombinant E. coli harboring the optimized hybrid MVA pathway in a test tube 
culture.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report of microbial synthesis of protoilludene by 
using an engineered E. coli strain. The protoilludene production was increased 
by approx. Thousandfold from an initial titer of 1.14 mg/L. The strategies of 
both the sequential order permutation and homolog substitution could provide a 
new perspective of engineering MVA pathway, and be applied to optimization of 
other metabolic pathways.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-016-0409-7
PMCID: PMC4719686
PMID: 26785630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Mol Biol Rep. 2021 Mar;48(3):2307-2314. doi: 10.1007/s11033-021-06260-w. Epub 
2021 Mar 15.

A rapid method for solubilization of chimeric human interferon regulatory 
factor-1 (IRF-1) protein in Escherichia coli.

Mishra SK(1), Verma R(1), Kumari P(1), Kumari A(1), Prakash K(2).

Author information:
(1)Recombinant DNA Technology Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, Central 
University of South Bihar, Gaya, 824236, India.
(2)Recombinant DNA Technology Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, Central 
University of South Bihar, Gaya, 824236, India. krishna@cub.ac.in.

Interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) is a vertebrate transcription factor that 
plays significant roles in cell cycle regulation, anti-viral response, tumor 
suppression and immune response. High-level expression of recombinant IRF-1 at 
37 °C leads to the formation of insoluble aggregates (insoluble fraction) in 
Escherichia coli (E. coli), which usually devoid of biological activity. In this 
study, we use chemical additives such as mannitol, proline, L-arginine and CTAB 
(cetyl trimethly ammonium bromide) at the recommended concentration during cell 
lysis to aid in solubility at 37 °C. The use of additives resulted in the 
increased solubility of the recombinant glutathione S-transferase-linked human 
IRF-1, with L-arginine being most effective. Here, we developed an efficient 
process for the manufacturing of soluble IRF-1 with the aid of minimizing the 
formation of degradation products and optimizing protein purification 
conditions. This result was further confirmed by western blot with anti-GST and 
anti-IRF-1 polyclonal antibodies. The functionality of GST-huIRF-1 was attained 
by elerophoretic mobility shift assay study as a clear band shifting showed with 
virus response element-Interferon beta (VRE-IFNβ) promoter region. Taken 
together, the biological activity of purified GST-huIRF-1 was also optimized and 
confirmed by supershift assay concluded that GST-huIRF-1 interacts with the VRE 
motif of IFNβ promoter that reflected to require for IFNβ gene regulation. We 
describe a straightforward approach for the production of absolutely soluble and 
biologically active IRF-1 in E. coli. This method can be further used for the 
study of other recombinant proteins and this study will pave way for the 
analysis of IRF-1 function in vitro.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-021-06260-w
PMID: 33721170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Int J Biol Macromol. 2021 Jan 15;167:787-795. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.11.212. Epub 2020 Dec 2.

An improved strategy of TGFβ3 expression in Escherichia coli: Exploiting folding 
modulators for a switch from misfolded to folded form.

Dawn A(1), Deep S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, India. 
Electronic address: sdeep@chemistry.iitd.ac.in.

Transforming growth factor beta 3 (TGFβ3) exhibits a complex native structure 
featuring the presence of multiple disulfide bonds forming the active dimer. 
Consequently, its heterologous expression in microbial system invariably leads 
to inclusion body (IB) formation. In this study, we observed an interesting 
phenomenon of switching a significant fraction of misfolded TGFβ3 to folded form 
by modulating the cellular protein folding machinery. We carried out 
co-expression experiments with chaperones and demonstrated the requirement of a 
coordinated action of DnaK-DnaJ-GrpE and GroESL, to achieve the native soluble 
conformation of TGFβ3, during over-expression in E. coli. The novelty of this 
study lies in the fact that orchestration of a group of chaperones to work in 
concert for efficient folding and assembly of TGFβ3-like cytokines has not been 
widely explored. Additionally, we have also demonstrated that presence of 
osmolytes (sorbitol or trehalose) in the growth media have an appreciable impact 
on the solubility of TGFβ3. We have further shown a synergism between the 
effects of molecular chaperone and osmolytes on the solubility of TGFβ3. We have 
confirmed the functionality of soluble TGFβ3 by performing binding interactions 
with its cognate receptor TβRII. Our study delineates the fact that an effective 
combination of chaperones or optimum concentration of compatible osmolyte, can 
efficiently abrogate competing aggregation pathways and help attain the native 
conformation of a cysteine rich cytokine in a facile manner.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.11.212
PMID: 33278443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


79. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Feb;118:49-54. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.10.009. Epub 
2015 Oct 20.

Expression and purification of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli tagged 
with a small metal-binding protein from Nitrosomonas europaea.

Vargas-Cortez T(1), Morones-Ramirez JR(1), Balderas-Renteria I(1), Zarate X(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, Av. 
Universidad s/n, Ciudad Universitaria, San Nicolas de los Garza, Nuevo Leon 
66451, Mexico.
(2)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, Av. 
Universidad s/n, Ciudad Universitaria, San Nicolas de los Garza, Nuevo Leon 
66451, Mexico. Electronic address: xristo.zaratekl@uanl.edu.mx.

Escherichia coli is still the preferred organism for large-scale production of 
recombinant proteins. The use of fusion proteins has helped considerably in 
enhancing the solubility of heterologous proteins and their purification with 
affinity chromatography. Here, the use of a small metal-binding protein (SmbP) 
from Nitrosomonas europaea is described as a new fusion protein for protein 
expression and purification in E. coli. Fluorescent proteins tagged at the 
N-terminal with SmbP showed high levels of solubility, compared with those of 
maltose-binding protein and glutathione S-transferase, and low formation of 
inclusion bodies. Using commercially available IMAC resins charged with Ni(II), 
highly pure recombinant proteins were obtained after just one chromatography 
step. Proteins may be purified from the periplasm of E. coli if SmbP contains 
the signal sequence at the N-terminal. After removal of the SmbP tag from the 
protein of interest, high-yields are obtained since SmbP is a protein of just 
9.9 kDa. The results here obtained suggest that SmbP is a good alternative as a 
fusion protein/affinity tag for the production of soluble recombinant proteins 
in E. coli.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.10.009
PMID: 26494603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Mar;103(5):2205-2216. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-018-09595-w. Epub 2019 Jan 4.

The NT11, a novel fusion tag for enhancing protein expression in Escherichia 
coli.

Nguyen TKM(1), Ki MR(1), Son RG(1), Pack SP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Korea University, 2511 
Sejong-Ro, Sejong, 30019, South Korea.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Korea University, 2511 
Sejong-Ro, Sejong, 30019, South Korea. spack@korea.ac.kr.

The Escherichia coli (E. coli) expression system has been widely used to produce 
recombinant proteins. However, in some heterologous expressions, there are still 
difficulties in large-scale production. The use of fusion partners is one of the 
strategies for improving the expression levels of proteins in E. coli host. 
Here, we demonstrate a novel fusion element, the NT11-tag, which enhances 
protein expression. The NT11-tag was derived from the first 11 amino acid 
residues within the N-terminal N-half domain of a duplicated carbonic anhydrase 
(dCA) from Dunaliella species. Previously, we have found that the tag improves 
expression of the C-half domain of dCA when linked to its N-terminus. To verify 
its use as a protein production enhancer tag, two kinds of CAs derived from 
Hahella chejuensis (Hc-CA) and Thermovibrio ammonifican (Ta-CA) and the yellow 
fluorescent protein (YFP) were used as model proteins to measure their increased 
expression upon fusion with the NT11-tag. The NT11-tag amplified protein 
expression in E. coli by 6.9- and 7.6-fold for Ta-CA and YFP, respectively. 
Moreover, the tag also enhanced the soluble expression of Hc-CA, Ta-CA, and YFP 
by 1.7-, 5.0-, and 3.2-fold, respectively. Furthermore, protein yield was 
increased without inhibiting protein function. These results indicate that the 
use of the NT11-tag is a promising method for improving protein production in E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-018-09595-w
PMID: 30610290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Hua Xi Kou Qiang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jun;30(3):251-4, 258.

[Optimizing expression and antibody preparation of recombinant Streptococcus 
mutans surface protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Jin J(1), Fan M, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Operative Dentistry and Endodontics, Stomatological Hospital of 
Hangzhou, Hangzhou 310006, China.

OBJECTIVE: The soluble protein recombinant Streptococcus mutans surface protein 
(rPAc) was expressed in Escherichia coli (E.coli) after the optimization of 
inducing conditions. The antiserum against rPAc was obtained by immunizing mice 
with the purified rPAc.
METHODS: The soluble expression of rPAc in E. coli was further optimized by 
means of different culture conditions. Polyclonal antibody was made by 
immunizing mice with purified rPAc. Western blot and enzyme linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA) were carried out to identify the immunocompetence of the antibody.
RESULTS: The highest soluble expression level of rPAc was obtained at 
Luria-Bertani (LB) medium (pH=7.2) when optical density (OD600nm) was 0.6 after 
being induced at 30 degrees C for 4 h and the concentration of isopropyl 
beta-D-1-thigalactopyranoside (IPTG) was 1.0mmol x L(-1). The titer of the mice 
antiserum against rPAc was about 1:6000 by ELISA analysis, and rPAc could be 
specifically recognized by Western blot analysis.
CONCLUSION: This study proved that rPAc can be effectively expressed as a 
soluble form in E. coli, and the high specific polyclonal antibody of rPAc was 
proved to be prepared, which shed light on further research of DNA prime-protein 
boost inoculation.

PMID: 22768760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2010 May;39(3):264-71.

[Expression of recombinant ribosome inactivating protein MAP30 in E.coli and its 
biological activity].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang LL(1), Ding Q, Zhan JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, College of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou 310058, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and produce ribosome inactivating protein MAP30 from the 
seeds of Momordica charantia L(bitter melon), and to evaluate the biological 
activity of the recombinant protein.
METHODS: The DNA sequence encoding MAP30 was cloned from the fresh seeds of 
Momordica charantia by PCR, the target DNA fragments were sequenced after T-A 
cloning. The expression plasmid was constructed by inserting the MAP30 fragment 
into vector pET30a. MAP30 was expressed in E.coli by addition of IPTG into final 
concentration of 1.0 mmol/L. The recombinant MAP30 was identified by SDS-PAGE, 
and the biological activity of MAP30 protein was evaluated by using MTT assay in 
cancer cells and normal cells following fluid-phase endocytosis.
RESULT: The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the cloned MAP30 were 
identical with those of reported MAP30. The solubility of recombinant protein 
was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, and the MAP30 was mainly produced in soluble form. The 
recombinant MAP30 showed a greater cytotoxicity to cancer cells than that to 
normal cells.
CONCLUSION: The gene of MAP30 has been successfully cloned.The recombinant MAP30 
protein expressed by E.coli is bioactive.

PMID: 20544988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 May;169:105568. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105568. Epub 
2020 Jan 12.

Heterologous production of porcine derived antimicrobial peptide PR-39 in 
Escherichia coli using SUMO and intein fusion systems.

Azari M(1), Asad S(2), Mehrnia MR(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering-Biotechnology, College of Engineering, Kish 
International Campus, University of Tehran, Kish, Iran.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Science, University of Tehran, 
Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: asad@ut.ac.ir.
(3)School of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, University of Tehran, 
Tehran, Iran.

About half a century after antibiotics discovery, multi-antibiotic-resistant 
bacteria posed a new challenge to medicine. Attempts to discover new antibiotics 
have drawn the attention to Antimicrobial Peptides (AMPs). The rapid growth, 
besides its known genetic and manipulation systems, makes E. coli the preferred 
host system for production of recombinant proteins on an industrial scale. To 
produce AMPs in E. coli, the application of fusion-tags with the aim of 
stability, solubility, and prevention of antimicrobial activity is one of the 
best practices in this regard. In this study, we presented two different 
expression systems for the production of PR-39 in E. coli; one in fusion with 
intein-Chitin binding domain (CBD) and another in fusion with SUMO accompanied 
by polyhistidine affinity tag. Both were cloned in the NdeI-XhoI sites of 
pET-17b and transformed to E. coli BL21 (DE3) pLysS. Recombinant bacteria were 
cultured and induced with 0.4 mM IPTG at 30 °C. Expression and purification of 
target proteins were confirmed by Tricine- SDS-PAGE and dot blot analysis. 
Recovery of 250 μg PR-39/L from SUMO fusion system and 280 μg PR-39/L from the 
intein fusion system was achieved. Both purified peptides showed antibacterial 
activity using MIC/MBC demonstrating their functionality after SUMO and intein 
mediated purification.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105568
PMID: 31935447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


84. Protein Pept Lett. 2020;27(10):945-952. doi: 10.2174/0929866527666200331134431.

Expression of Brazzein, a Small Sweet-Tasting Protein in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae: An Introduction for Production of Sweet Yeasts.

Kazemi-Nasab A(1), Shahpiri A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Agriculture, Isfahan University of 
Technology, Isfahan 84156-83111, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The replacement of carbohydrate sweeteners with protein sweeteners 
from plants has attracted the interest of researchers because these proteins 
don't trigger the insulin response and are more nutritive for consumption in 
food. Brazzein (Braz) is a small and heat- stable sweet protein that has been 
originally derived from African plant Pentadiplandra brazzeana. In the present 
work the solubility, sweetness and yield of recombinant forms of Braz in two 
expression hosts, E. coli and S. cerevisiae were comprised.
METHODS: The codon-optimized gene of Braz was cloned in expression vectors 
pET28a and pET41a and GPD. The resulted vectors pET28a-Braz and pEt41a-Braz were 
transformed into Escherichia coli strain Rosetta (DE3) and the vector GPD-Braz 
was transformd to S. cerevisiae. The expression of Braz in different systems was 
analyzed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting.
RESULTS: The results verified the heterologous expression of Braz in S. 
cerevisiae carrying GPDBraz. Also the expression of Braz as carboxy-terminal 
extensions of His-tag and Glutathione-STransferase (GST) were verified in 
transgenic E. coli containing pET28a-Braz and pET41a-Braz, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Although the yield of GST-Braz was higher than His-Braz and Braz 
expressed in S. cerevisiae, but the higher solubility, sweetness, safety (GRAS) 
are important advantages of the use of S. cerevisiae as expression host for 
production of Braz. Therefore the result of present work opens new insights for 
providing the new sweet yeasts that can be used as food additives.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866527666200331134431
PMID: 32228415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Appl Microbiol. 2017 May;122(5):1402-1411. doi: 10.1111/jam.13441.

Co-expression of sulphydryl oxidase and protein disulphide isomerase in 
Escherichia coli allows for production of soluble CRM(197).

Roth R(1), van Zyl P(1), Tsekoa T(1), Stoychev S(1), Mamputha S(1), Buthelezi 
S(1), Crampton M(1).

Author information:
(1)Biosciences, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South 
Africa.

AIMS: To investigate the production of soluble cross-reacting material 197 
(CRM197 ) in Escherichia coli, a safe and effective T-cell-dependent protein 
carrier for polysaccharides used in the manufacture and application of 
multivalent conjugate vaccines.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The use of co-expression of a sulphydryl oxidase (SOX) and 
protein disulphide isomerase for the production of soluble CRM197 in E. coli is 
described. CRM197 contains two disulphide bonds, which are normally unable to 
form in the reducing environment of the E. coli cytoplasm. It was found that 
co-expression yielded soluble CRM197 , at a production rate ~10% of the 
production of insoluble CRM197 , in equivalent small-scale cultures. Structural 
analysis of the purified CRM197 compared to CRM197 commercially produced in 
cultures of recombinant Pseudomonas fluorescens indicated that the E. coli 
soluble protein compares favourably on all structural levels.
CONCLUSIONS: SOX and protein disulphide isomerase are enzymes involved in the 
formation of intra-protein disulphide bonds, and can influence the tertiary 
structure of the protein being produced, resulting in increased solubility due 
to the correct folding of the protein. Their use enabled the production of 
soluble untagged CRM197 in E. coli, which was previously unachievable.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Previous literature reports have shown 
that CRM197 can be expressed in E. coli, though only in an insoluble form, or in 
soluble form as a fusion protein. It is currently commercially produced in 
cultures of recombinant P. fluorescens. The use of a widely used, 
well-characterized expression host such as E. coli, rather than P. fluorescens 
broadens the applicability of the production technology, and the production 
system described here is worthy of further investigation for scaled up 
manufacture of CRM197 .

© 2017 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.13441
PMID: 28276616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 May;32(5):688-92.

[Preparation and identification of the polyclonal antibody against mouse 
IL-23p19].

[Article in Chinese]

Men Y(1), Wang X(1), Ding C(1), Wang X(1), Ji Z(2), Wang T(1), Kang Q(3), Liu 
X(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, School of life sciences, Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou 450000, China.
(2)Institute of Medicine, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450000, China.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, School of life sciences, Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou 450000, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: 
qzkang@zzu.edu.cn.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, School of life sciences, Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou 450000, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: 
liux@zzu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare the polyclonal antibody against mouse interleukine-23 p19 
(IL-23p19).
METHODS: The murine full-length IL-23p19 gene was subcloned into pET16 
expression vector to construct the recombinant plasmid pET-16b-IL-23p19. The 
plasmid was transformed into E. coli BL 21 (DE3) and IL-23p19 protein expression 
was induced by IPTG and identified with SDS-PAGE analysis and Western blotting. 
After purified by Ni(+) affinity column chromatography, the IL-23p19 protein was 
used as the antigen to immunize New Zealand rabbit to prepare the antiserum. The 
polyclonal antibody against the mouse IL-23p19 was isolated from antiserum by 
affinity chromatography. Antibody titer was detected by ELISA. Antibody 
specificity was evaluated by Western blotting.
RESULTS: The pET-16b-IL-23p19 recombinant plasmid was successfully constructed 
and the IL-23p19 protein was effectively expressed in E. coli BL 21 (DE3). The 
antibody was successfully prepared by immunizing New Zealand rabbit with the 
IL-23p19 protein four times. ELISA showed that the titer of the anti-mouse 
IL-23p19 polyclonal antibody was about 1:256,000. Western blotting confirmed 
that anti-mouse IL-23p19 polyclonal antibody could specifically recognize the 
IL-23p19 protein.
CONCLUSION: We have successfully prepared the anti-IL-23p19 polyclonal antibody 
with the high titer and specificity.

PMID: 27126950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 Nov;163:105443. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.06.003. Epub 
2019 Jun 8.

Soluble expression of mature Rhizopus chinensis lipase in Escherichia coli and 
enhancement of its ester synthesis activity.

Zhang Z(1), Wang D(2), Xu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China; School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China; School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, 
China. Electronic address: dwang@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(3)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China; School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, 
China; State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: 
yxu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

The production of membrane-associated lipase from Rhizopus chinensis (RCL), 
which has a high ester synthesis activity and important potential applications, 
is difficult in heterologous expression system such as Escherichia coli and 
often leads to the formation of inclusion bodies. Here, we describe the soluble 
expression of mature RCL (mRCL) using maltose-binding protein (MBP) as a 
solubility-enhancing tag in the E. coli system. Although the MBP-mRCL fusion 
protein was soluble, mRCL was insoluble after removal of the MBP tag in E. coli 
BL21 (DE3). Using E. coli BL21 trxB (DE3) as an expression host, soluble mRCL 
was obtained and expression conditions were optimized. Furthermore, the ester 
synthesis activity of soluble mRCL was increased by detergent treatment and was 
found to be 3.5 and 1.5 times higher than those of the untreated enzyme and 
naturally occurring enzyme, respectively. Overall, this study provides a 
potential approach for producing active and soluble forms of eukaryotic lipases 
in a heterologous E. coli expression system.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.06.003
PMID: 31185288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Aug;42(8):1149-55. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-015-1642-5. Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Efficient production of indigoidine in Escherichia coli.

Xu F(1), Gage D, Zhan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Engineering, Utah State University, 4105 Old Main 
Hill, Logan, UT, 84322-4105, USA.

Indigoidine is a bacterial natural product with antioxidant and antimicrobial 
activities. Its bright blue color resembles the industrial dye indigo, thus 
representing a new natural blue dye that may find uses in industry. In our 
previous study, an indigoidine synthetase Sc-IndC and an associated helper 
protein Sc-IndB were identified from Streptomyces chromofuscus ATCC 49982 and 
successfully expressed in Escherichia coli BAP1 to produce the blue pigment at 
3.93 g/l. To further improve the production of indigoidine, in this work, the 
direct biosynthetic precursor L-glutamine was fed into the fermentation broth of 
the engineered E. coli strain harboring Sc-IndC and Sc-IndB. The highest titer 
of indigoidine reached 8.81 ± 0.21 g/l at 1.46 g/l L-glutamine. Given the 
relatively high price of L-glutamine, a metabolic engineering technique was used 
to directly enhance the in situ supply of this precursor. A glutamine synthetase 
gene (glnA) was amplified from E. coli and co-expressed with Sc-indC and Sc-indB 
in E. coli BAP1, leading to the production of indigoidine at 5.75 ± 0.09 g/l. 
Because a nitrogen source is required for amino acid biosynthesis, we then 
tested the effect of different nitrogen-containing salts on the supply of 
L-glutamine and subsequent indigoidine production. Among the four tested salts 
including (NH4)2SO4, NH4Cl, (NH4)2HPO4 and KNO3, (NH4)2HPO4 showed the best 
effect on improving the titer of indigoidine. Different concentrations of 
(NH4)2HPO4 were added to the fermentation broths of E. coli 
BAP1/Sc-IndC+Sc-IndB+GlnA, and the titer reached the highest (7.08 ± 0.11 g/l) 
at 2.5 mM (NH4)2HPO4. This work provides two efficient methods for the 
production of this promising blue pigment in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-015-1642-5
PMID: 26109508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. 3 Biotech. 2017 Dec;7(6):356. doi: 10.1007/s13205-017-0943-y. Epub 2017 Oct 3.

A fusion protein strategy for soluble expression of Stevia glycosyltransferase 
UGT76G1 in Escherichia coli.

Chen L(1), Sun P(1), Li Y(1)(2), Yan M(1), Xu L(1), Chen K(1), Ouyang P(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, Nanjing, 211800 China.
(2)Yichang Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis, China Three Gorges University, 
Yichang, 443002 China.

The UDP-glucosyltransferase UGT76G1 from Stevia rebaudiana converts stevioside 
to rebaudioside A via a one-step glycosylation reaction, which increases the 
amount of sweet-tasting rebaudioside A and decreases the amount of stevioside 
that has a bitter aftertaste. This enzyme could, therefore, conceivably be used 
to improve the organoleptic properties of steviol glycosides and offer a 
cost-effective preparation of high-purity rebaudioside A. Producing soluble 
enzymes by overexpression is a prerequisite for large-scale biocatalysis. 
However, most of the UGT76G1 overexpressed in Escherichia coli is in inclusion 
bodies. In this study, three N-terminal fusion partners, 
3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphatase (CysQ), 2-keto-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconate 
aldolase (EDA) and N-utilisation substance A (NusA), were tested to improve 
UGT76G1 expression and solubility in E. coli. Compared with the fusion-free 
protein, the solubility of UGT76G1 was increased 40% by fusion with CysQ, and 
the glucosyltransferase activity of the crude extract was increased 82%. This 
successful CysQ fusion strategy could be applied to enhance the expression and 
solubility of other plant-derived glucosyltransferases and presumably other 
unrelated proteins in the popular, convenient and cost-effective E. coli host.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-017-0943-y
PMCID: PMC5624807
PMID: 29038773

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


90. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2021 May 28;555:121-127. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2021.03.102. Epub 2021 Apr 1.

EGFR extracellular domain III expressed in Escherichia coli with SEP tag shows 
improved biophysical and functional properties and generate anti-sera inhibiting 
cancer cell growth.

Brindha S(1), Kibria MG(1), Saotome T(2), Unzai S(3), Kuroda Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Faculty of Engineering, Tokyo 
University of Agriculture and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 
184-8588, Japan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Faculty of Engineering, Tokyo 
University of Agriculture and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 
184-8588, Japan; Department of Bioengineering, Nagaoka University of Technology, 
Niigata, 940-2188, Japan.
(3)Department of Frontier Bioscience, Faculty of Bioscience and Applied 
Chemistry, Hosei University, 3-7-2 Kajino-Cho, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 184-8584, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Faculty of Engineering, Tokyo 
University of Agriculture and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 
184-8588, Japan. Electronic address: ykuroda@cc.tuat.ac.jp.

The epidermal growth factor receptor extracellular domain III (EGFR-ECDIII) 
protein is a promising target of anti-cancer research, and its production in 
Escherichia coli would thus represent significant benefits. However, despite its 
moderate size (19 kDa), the expression of EGFR-ECDIII in E.coli is hampered by 
the presence of multiple cysteines producing misfolded proteins with incorrect 
S-S bonds. In our study, we show that a short 12-residue solubility enhancing 
peptide (SEP) tag containing nine arginines (C9R) attached at the C-terminus of 
EGFR-ECDIII reduces the inclusion body formation and increases the final yield 
by six times (20 mg/L). EGFR-ECDIII-C9R purified from the soluble fraction 
eluted as a sharp single RP-HPLC peak, suggesting a single S-S bond pairing. 
Biophysical characterization using circular dichroism, fluorescence, and light 
scattering confirmed its native-like properties together with reversible thermal 
denaturation. The binding activity of EGFR-ECDIII-C9R to anti-EGFR-VHH7D12, a 
single-domain antibody with specific binding to the ECDIII, was assessed by 
sandwich ELISA. Further, we produced anti-EGFR-ECDIII-C9R antisera in mouse 
models and anti-sera inhibited A431 cancer cells' growth. These results 
demonstrate that the SEP tag enables the rapid production of the multiple 
disulfide-bonded EGFR-ECDIII in E. coli having native-like biophysical 
properties and producing neutralizing antibodies.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2021.03.102
PMID: 33813270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


91. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 May;97:29-36. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.02.008. Epub 2014 
Feb 25.

Recombinant expression and purification of an ATP-dependent DNA ligase from 
Aliivibrio salmonicida.

Williamson A(1), Pedersen H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Tromsø, N-9019 Tromsø, Norway. 
Electronic address: adele.k.williamson@uit.no.
(2)Institute of Medical Biology, University of Tromsø, N-9019 Tromsø, Norway.

The genome of the psychrophilic fish-pathogen Aliivibrio salmonicida encodes a 
putative ATP-dependent DNA ligase in addition to a housekeeping NAD-dependent 
enzyme. In order to study the structure and activity of the ATP dependent ligase 
in vitro we have undertaken its recombinant production and purification from an 
Escherichia coli based expression system. Expression and purification of this 
protein presented two significant challenges. First, the gene product was 
moderately toxic to E. coli cells, second it was necessary to remove the large 
amounts of E. coli DNA present in bacterial lysates without contamination of the 
protein preparation by nucleases which might interfere with future assaying. The 
toxicity problem was overcome by fusion of the putative ligase to large 
solubility tags such as maltose-binding protein (MBP) or 
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and DNA was removed by treatment with a 
nuclease which could be inhibited by reducing agents. As the A. salmonicida 
ATP-dependent DNA ligase gene encodes a predicted leader peptide, both the 
full-length and mature forms of the protein were produced. Both possessed 
ATP-dependent DNA ligase activity, but the truncated form was significantly more 
active. Here we detail the first reported production, purification and 
preliminary characterization of active A. salmonicida ATP-dependent DNA ligase.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.02.008
PMID: 24582823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Int J Infect Dis. 2010 Sep;14 Suppl 3:e166-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2009.12.009. 
Epub 2010 Apr 24.

Production and immunogenicity of recombinant ferric enterobactin protein (FepA).

Baghal SM(1), Gargari SL, Rasooli I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Ferric siderophore complexes are produced by most bacteria to 
acquire iron, a vital element. These complexes are transported across the outer 
membrane by receptor proteins commonly known as FepA (ferric enterobactin 
protein). In this study we attempted to evaluate the immunogenicity of the 
membrane protein FepA, aiming at inhibition of iron uptake to protect invasion 
of the host by the bacterium.
METHODS: The genomic fepA gene was amplified from Escherichia coli O157:H7. The 
PCR product was ligated into pET28a and was then expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3). 
The recombinant protein purified by nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) 
affinity chromatography was injected into BALB/C mice to induce immunity. 
Antibody titer was determined by ELISA. Mouse groups were challenged with 
various doses of E. coli O157:H7, Shigella flexneri, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and 
Salmonella typhi to study immune response.
RESULTS: An 85-kDa recombinant protein was expressed and purified. 
Immunogenicity of the recombinant protein was determined by injecting BALB/C 
mice. The antibody produced therein could efficiently recognize and bind ferric 
enterobactin binding protein. Immunized mice challenged with higher doses of 
selected bacteria survived.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant recognition by the antibody of ferric enterobactin 
binding protein may lead to its application in the restriction of 
Enterobacteriaceae propagation.

Copyright © 2010 International Society for Infectious Diseases. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2009.12.009
PMID: 20418143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Apr;120:65-71. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.12.006. Epub 
2015 Dec 12.

Investigation of TtrD, an expressing recombinant fusion tag, in Escherichia 
coli.

Chen A(1), Zhang L(1), Gu S(1), Tang R(1), Xie Y(1), Ji C(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, School of 
Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, School of 
Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, PR China; Shanghai Engineering 
Research Center of Industrial Microorganisms Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, 
PR China; Shanghai Collaborative Innovation Center for Biomanufacturing(SCICB), 
East China University of Science and Technology, 130 Meilong Road, Shanghai 
200237, PR China. Electronic address: chnji@fudan.edu.cn.

Escherichia coli is widely used for expressing recombinant proteins, and several 
tags have been developed to improve protein solubility. However, expressing and 
purifying protein from other organisms is not always successful. In this study, 
we investigated the possibility of using TtrD as an expressing fusion tag in 
E. coli. Twenty RING finger domain containing human genes were expressed in 
E. coli grown at 37 °C and 18 °C and tested with four other fusion tags, namely 
His, SUMO, GST and MBP, for comparison. The results indicated that the soluble 
expressing ability of the tags was MBP, GST, TtrD, SUMO, and His in descending 
order. A one-column refolding process was used to purify the expressed proteins 
in inclusion bodies, and TtrD showed the strongest refolding ability. The 
results suggested that the TtrD tag enhanced recombinant protein solubility and 
refolding ability and might be a useful tag for protein expression in E. coli.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.12.006
PMID: 26690374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Feb;33(2):246-51.

[Preparation and application of rabbit anti-mouse Setd8 polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma H, Guo J, Xia J, Niu C, Shen X, Sun H, Zheng Y.

OBJECTIVE: To purify the recombinant Setd8 protein and prepare rabbit anti-mouse 
Setd8 polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The recombinant plasmid p ET-30a-Setd8 was constructed by double enzyme 
digestion and linkage,and then transformed into E. coli BL21. The expression of 
the target protein was induced by IPTG and the expression product was purified 
by Ni-NTA affinity chromatograph. The purified protein was used to immunize New 
Zealand white rabbits to produce polyclonal antibody. The titer and specificity 
of the antibody were identified by ELISA,Western blotting and 
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression vector p ET-30a-Setd8 was constructed 
successfully. After induced by IPTG,the recombinant Setd8 protein was expressed 
effectively in E. coli BL21. Polyclonal antibody against Setd8 was generated by 
immunizing rabbits with the routine method. ELISA showed that the titer of 
rabbit anti-Setd8 antiserum was 1 ∶ 1 000 000.Western blotting demonstrated that 
the polyclonal antibody could recognize the native mouse Setd8 protein. 
Immunohistochemistry revealed that Setd8 protein recognized by the polyclonal 
antibody was mainly distributed in the nucleus of spermatogonia in adult mouse 
testis.
CONCLUSION: Using the prokaryotic expression vector p ET-30a-Setd8,we have 
prepared successfully the polyclonal antibody with high affinity and 
specificity.

PMID: 29763214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Iran J Immunol. 2019 Sep;16(3):200-211. doi: 10.22034/IJI.2019.80271.

Immunogenic Evaluation of Bivalent Vaccine Candidate against Enterohemorrhagic 
and Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.

Karimi Rahjerdi A(1), Jafari M, Motamedi MJ, Amani J, Salmanian AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic Engineering 
and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Caused by bacterial, viral, and parasitic pathogens, diarrhea is the 
second leading cause of death among children under five. Two strains of E. coli, 
namely Enterotoxigenic, ETEC and Enterohemorrhagic EHEC are the most important 
causes of this disease in developing countries. EHEC is a major causative agent 
of bloody diarrhea and hemorrhagic uremic syndrome, while ETEC is the most 
important cause of diarrhea in neonates and travelers.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the immunologic properties of a subunit vaccine 
candidate comprising the main immunogenic epitopes from these two bacterial 
strains.
METHODS: The construct comprised of LTB and CfaB antigens from ETEC, and Intimin 
and Stx2B antigens from EHEC, was designed, analyzed and synthesized using 
bioinformatics methods. The chimeric gene was sub-cloned in the expression 
vector and expressed in E. coli host. The purified chimera protein was injected 
subcutaneously into the experimental animals. The production of specific 
antibodies was confirmed by immunological methods, and the protection capacity 
was evaluated by the challenge of immunized mice with the pathogenic bacteria.
RESULTS: Chimeric recombinant protein was able to increase IgG titer. 
Neutralization assay indicated that the antibodies generated against LtB moiety 
were able to neutralize ETEC toxin. In animal challenge study, all non-immune 
mice died within 3 days after the injection of toxin, but all immunized mice 
survived from Stx toxin.
CONCLUSIONS: The immunity to both ETEC and EHEC bacteria is significant, and 
this structure can be considered as a candidate for vaccine production against 
these bacterial strains.

DOI: 10.22034/IJI.2019.80271
PMID: 31552829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2007 Mar;8(1):27-35. doi: 10.1007/s10969-007-9030-7. 
Epub 2007 Nov 9.

The transcriptional response of Escherichia coli to recombinant protein 
insolubility.

Smith HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Advanced Research in Biotechnology, University of Maryland 
Biotechnology Institute, Rockville, MD 20850, USA smithh@umbi.umd.edu

Bacterial production of recombinant proteins offers several advantages over 
alternative expression methods and remains the system of choice for many 
structural genomics projects. However, a large percentage of targets accumulate 
as insoluble inclusion bodies rather than soluble protein, creating a 
significant bottleneck in the protein production pipeline. Numerous strategies 
have been reported that can improve in vivo protein solubility, but most do not 
scale easily for high-throughput expression screening. To understand better the 
host cell response to the accumulation of insoluble protein, we determined 
genome-wide changes in bacterial gene expression upon induction of either 
soluble or insoluble target proteins. By comparing transcriptional profiles for 
multiple examples from the soluble or insoluble class, we identified a pattern 
of gene expression that correlates strongly with protein solubility. Direct 
targets of the sigma32 heat shock sigma factor, which includes genes involved in 
protein folding and degradation, were highly expressed in response to induction 
of insoluble protein. This same group of genes was also upregulated by insoluble 
protein accumulation under a different growth regime, indicating that 
sigma32-mediated gene expression is a general response to protein insolubility. 
This knowledge provides a starting point for the rational design of growth 
parameters and host strains with improved protein solubility characteristics. 
Summary Problems with protein solubility are frequently encountered when 
recombinant proteins are expressed in E. coli. The bacterial host responds to 
this problem by increasing expression of the protein folding machinery via the 
heat shock sigma factor sigma32. Manipulation of the sigma32 regulon might 
provide a general mechanism for improving recombinant protein solubility.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-007-9030-7
PMID: 17992580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. ACS Synth Biol. 2020 Jun 19;9(6):1385-1394. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00062. Epub 
2020 May 27.

sRNA-Based Screening Chromosomal Gene Targets and Modular Designing Escherichia 
coli for High-Titer Production of Aglycosylated Immunoglobulin G.

Zhang J(1), Zhao Y(1), Cao Y(1), Yu Z(2), Wang G(2), Li Y(2), Ye X(2), Li C(3), 
Lin X(3), Song H(1).

Author information:
(1)Frontier Science Center for Synthetic Biology, Key Laboratory of Systems 
Bioengineering (MOE), Collaborative Innovation Centre of Chemical Science and 
Engineering (Tianjin), and School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, 
Tianjin University, Tianjin 300350, P. R. China.
(2)Yangzhou Lianao Biopharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and Yangzhou Aurisco 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Wanmei Road No. 5, Hanjiang Economic Development Zone, 
Yangzhou City, Jiangsu Province 225100, P. R. China.
(3)College of Food Science and Technology, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, P. 
R. China.

The production of the aglycosylated immunoglobulin G (IgG) in Escherichia coli 
has received wide interest for its analytical and therapeutic applications. To 
enhance the production titer of IgG, we first used synthetic sRNAs to perform a 
systematical analysis of the gene expression in the translational level in the 
glycolytic pathway (module 1) and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle (module 2) 
to reveal the critical genes for the efficient IgG production. Second, to 
provide sufficient amino acid precursors for the protein biosynthesis, amino 
acid biosynthesis pathways (module 3) were enhanced to facilitate the IgG 
production. Upon integrated engineering of these genes in the three modules 
(module 1, aceF; module 2, gltA and acnA; module 3, serB) and optimization of 
fermentation conditions, the recombinant E. coli enabled a titer of the 
full-assembled IgG of 4.5 ± 0.6 mg/L in flask cultures and 184 ± 9.2 mg/L in the 
5 L high cell density fed-batch fermenter, which is, as far as we know, the 
highest reported titer of IgG production in recombinant E. coli.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00062
PMID: 32396719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Avicenna J Med Biotechnol. 2017 Oct-Dec;9(4):169-175.

Cloning, Expression and Purification of Pseudomonas putida ATCC12633 Creatinase.

Afshari E(1), Amini-Bayat Z(2), Hosseinkhani S(3), Bakhtiari N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Islamic Azad University of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Iranian Research Organization for Science and 
Technology (IROST), Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Pseudomonas putida (P. putida) ATCC12633 can produce creatinase. It 
is a microbial enzyme which degrades creatinine in bacteria and provides source 
of carbon and nitrogen. Also, this enzyme is used in the enzymatic measurement 
of creatinine concentration for diagnosis of renal and muscles functions and 
diseases. Our purpose was recombinant production of creatinase for using in 
clinical measurement of serum or urine creatinine.
METHODS: A 1209bp of open reading frame of creatinase was amplified by PCR from 
P. putida ATCC12633 genome and cloned into pET28a expression vector which was 
digested using NheI and XhoI restriction enzymes. Cloning was confirmed by 
colony PCR, double digestion analysis and sequencing. Recombinant pET28a vector 
was transformed to Escherichia coli (E. coli) BL21 (DE3). Creatinase expression 
was induced in E.coli BL21 (DE3) using IPTG and confirmed by SDS-PAGE and 
western blotting. Purification of creatinase was performed using Ni-NTA column. 
The specific activity of this enzyme was also investigated.
RESULTS: The creatinase gene cloning was confirmed by DNA sequencing. Successful 
expression of creatinase was performed in E. coli (57.4% of total protein). 
SDS-PAGE and western blot analysis showed a 45 kDa creatinase protein. 
Purification of creatinase was done with high purity. The specific activity of 
recombinant enzyme is 26.54 unit/mg that is much higher than other creatinase 
used in the commercial kits (9 unit/mg).
CONCLUSION: The P. putida ATCC12633 recombinant creatinase was expressed 
efficiently in E. coli BL21 and 57% of total protein was the recombinant 
creatinase. Also, expressed creatinase has high solubility and also the enzyme 
has good activity compared to enzymes used in commercial kits, so a new source 
of creatinase was produced for creatinine assay kit in this study.

PMCID: PMC5650733
PMID: 29090065


99. Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 13;8(1):10618. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-29035-z.

Codon usage clusters correlation: towards protein solubility prediction in 
heterologous expression systems in E. coli.

Pellizza L(1), Smal C(1), Rodrigo G(1), Arán M(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Fundación Instituto Leloir, 
IIBBA-CONICET, Av. Patricias Argentinas 435, C1405BWE, CABA, Argentina.
(2)Laboratory of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Fundación Instituto Leloir, 
IIBBA-CONICET, Av. Patricias Argentinas 435, C1405BWE, CABA, Argentina. 
maran@leloir.org.ar.

Production of soluble recombinant proteins is crucial to the development of 
industry and basic research. However, the aggregation due to the incorrect 
folding of the nascent polypeptides is still a mayor bottleneck. Understanding 
the factors governing protein solubility is important to grasp the underlying 
mechanisms and improve the design of recombinant proteins. Here we show a 
quantitative study of the expression and solubility of a set of proteins from 
Bizionia argentinensis. Through the analysis of different features known to 
modulate protein production, we defined two parameters based on the %MinMax 
algorithm to compare codon usage clusters between the host and the target genes. 
We demonstrate that the absolute difference between all %MinMax frequencies of 
the host and the target gene is significantly negatively correlated with protein 
expression levels. But most importantly, a strong positive correlation between 
solubility and the degree of conservation of codons usage clusters is observed 
for two independent datasets. Moreover, we evince that this correlation is 
higher in codon usage clusters involved in less compact protein secondary 
structure regions. Our results provide important tools for protein design and 
support the notion that codon usage may dictate translation rate and modulate 
co-translational folding.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-29035-z
PMCID: PMC6045634
PMID: 30006617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


100. Biotechnol Rep (Amst). 2018 May 30;19:e00261. doi: 10.1016/j.btre.2018.e00261. 
eCollection 2018 Sep.

Expression of soluble native protein in Escherichia coli using a cold-shock SUMO 
tag-fused expression vector.

Li J(1), Han Q(1), Zhang T(1), Du J(2), Sun Q(1), Pang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of Education, Zhejiang 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Institute of Enzyme Engineering 
and Medical Diagnosis, College of Laboratory Medicine and Life Sciences, Wenzhou 
Medical University, Wenzhou 325035, China.
(2)People's Hospital of Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou 310014, China.

At present, approximately 30% of eukaryotic proteins can be expressed in a 
soluble form in Escherichia coli. In this study, a pCold-SUMOa plasmid was 
constructed in order to express heterologous proteins fused with SUMO by a 
cold-shock expression vector. The human cysteine desulfurase NFS1 and a chimeric 
cysteine desulfurase namely, EH-IscS were successfully expressed in E. coli. The 
proteins were particularly difficult to be produced functionally, due to their 
readily sequestered nature. The recombinant cysteine desulfurases that were 
generated by pCold-SUMOa exhibited higher activity, solubility and stability 
compared with the well-known plasmid pCold I. In contrast to the pCold TF 
plasmid, the SUMO tag conferred no biological activity with regard to the 
conformation of the cysteine desulfurases. Furthermore, the SUMO protease 1 can 
efficiently recognize the tertiary structure of SUMO and cleave it. The data 
indicate that the pCold-SUMOa vector is a promising tool for native eukaryotic 
protein production.

DOI: 10.1016/j.btre.2018.e00261
PMCID: PMC6042314
PMID: 30009138


101. Immunobiology. 2020 Jul;225(4):151953. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2020.151953. Epub 
2020 May 27.

Generation of novel trimeric fragments of human SP-A and SP-D after recombinant 
soluble expression in E. coli.

Watson A(1), Sørensen GL(2), Holmskov U(3), Whitwell HJ(4), Madsen J(5), Clark 
H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Division of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton General Hospital, 
Southampton, United Kingdom. Electronic address: a.s.watson@soton.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Department of Cardiovascular and Renal 
Research, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(3)Department of Cancer and Inflammation, University of Southern Denmark, 
Odense, Denmark.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Imperial College 
London, London, UK; Department of Metabolomics, Digestion and Reproduction, 
Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(5)Department of Child Health, Division of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton General Hospital, 
Southampton, United Kingdom.

Surfactant treatment for neonatal respiratory distress syndrome has dramatically 
improved survival of preterm infants. However, this has resulted in a markedly 
increased incidence of sequelae such as neonatal chronic inflammatory lung 
disease. The current surfactant preparations in clinical use lack the natural 
lung defence proteins surfactant proteins (SP)-A and D. These are known to have 
anti-inflammatory and anti-infective properties essential for maintaining 
healthy non-inflamed lungs. Supplementation of currently available animal 
derived surfactant therapeutics with these anti-inflammatory proteins in the 
first few days of life could prevent the development of inflammatory lung 
disease in premature babies. However, current systems for production of 
recombinant versions of SP-A and SP-D require a complex solubilisation and 
refolding protocol limiting expression at scale for drug development. Using a 
novel solubility tag, we describe the expression and purification of recombinant 
fragments of human (rfh) SP-A and SP-D using Escherichia coli without the need 
for refolding. We obtained a mean (± SD) of 23.3 (± 5.4) mg and 86 mg (± 3.5) 
per litre yield of rfhSP-A and rfhSP-D, respectively. rfhSP-D was trimeric and 
68% bound to a ManNAc-affinity column, giving a final yield of 57.5 mg/litre of 
highly pure protein, substantially higher than the 3.3 mg/litre obtained through 
the standard refolding protocol. Further optimisation of this novel lab based 
method could potentially make rfhSP-A and rfhSP-D production more commercially 
feasible to enable development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of lung 
infection and inflammation.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2020.151953
PMCID: PMC7422833
PMID: 32747028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest A patent has 
been jointly filed by University of Southampton and Spiber Technologies 
(WO2017109477A2·2017−06-29) on which Alastair Watson, Jens Madsen and Howard 
Clark are named inventors. The NT technology was developed and is owned by 
Spiber Technologies.


102. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2021 Feb 4;19(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s43141-021-00126-1.

Solubility assessment of single-chain antibody fragment against epithelial cell 
adhesion molecule extracellular domain in four Escherichia coli strains.

Javadian FS(#)(1), Basafa M(#)(1), Behravan A(1), Hashemi A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, ValiAsr Avenue, Niayesh Junction, PO 
Box 14155-6153, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, ValiAsr Avenue, Niayesh Junction, PO 
Box 14155-6153, Tehran, Iran. At_hashemi@sbmu.ac.ir.
(3)Protein Technology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, ValiAsr Avenue, Niayesh Junction, PO Box 14155-6153, Tehran, Iran. 
At_hashemi@sbmu.ac.ir.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of the EpCAM (epithelial cell adhesion molecule) in 
malignancies makes it an attractive target for passive immunotherapy in a wide 
range of carcinomas. In comparison with full-length antibodies, due to the small 
size, the scFvs (single-chain variable fragments) are more suitable for 
recombinant expression in E. coli (Escherichia coli). However, the proteins 
expressed in large amounts in E. coli tend to form inclusion bodies that need to 
be refolded which may result in poor recovery of bioactive proteins. Various 
engineered strains were shown to be able to alleviate the insolubility problem. 
Here, we studied the impact of four E. coli strains on the soluble level of 
anti-EpEX-scFv (anti-EpCAM extracellular domain-scFv) protein.
RESULTS: Although results showed that the amount of soluble anti-EpEX-scFv 
obtained in BL21TM (DE3) (114.22 ± 3.47 mg/L) was significantly higher to those 
produced in the same condition in E. coli RosettaTM (DE3) (71.39 ± 0.31 mg/L), 
and OrigamiTM T7 (58.99 ± 0.44 mg/L) strains, it was not significantly different 
from that produced by E. coli SHuffleTM T7 (108.87 ± 2.71 mg/L). Furthermore, 
the highest volumetric productivity of protein reached 318.29 ± 26.38 mg/L in 
BL21TM (DE3).
CONCLUSIONS: Although BL21TM (DE3) can be a suitable strain for high-level 
production of anti-EpEX-scFv protein, due to higher solubility yield (about 
55%), E. coli SHuffleTM T7 seems to be better candidate for soluble production 
of scfv compared to BL21TM (DE3) (solubility yield of about 30%).

DOI: 10.1186/s43141-021-00126-1
PMCID: PMC7862456
PMID: 33543415

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


103. Vaccines (Basel). 2020 Dec 7;8(4):742. doi: 10.3390/vaccines8040742.

Recombinant Enterovirus 71 Viral Protein 1 Fused to a Truncated Newcastle 
Disease Virus NP (NPt) Carrier Protein.

Mustafa S(1), Abd-Aziz N(2), Saw WT(3), Liew SY(3), Yusoff K(3), Shafee N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science and Fishery, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Bintulu 
Sarawak Campus, Bintulu 97008, Malaysia.
(2)Centre for Virus and Vaccine Research (CVVR), School of Science and 
Technology, Sunway University, Subang Jaya 47500, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, 
Malaysia.

Enterovirus 71 (EV71) is the major causative agent in hand, foot, and mouth 
disease (HFMD), and it mainly infects children worldwide. Despite the risk, 
there is no effective vaccine available for this disease. Hence, a recombinant 
protein construct of truncated nucleocapsid protein viral protein 1 
(NPt-VP1198-297), which is capable of inducing neutralizing antibody against 
EV71, was evaluated in a mouse model. Truncated nucleocapsid protein Newcastle 
disease virus that was used as immunological carrier fused to VP1 of EV71 as 
antigen. The recombinant plasmid carrying corresponding genes was constructed by 
recombinant DNA technology and the corresponding protein was produced in 
Escherichia coli expression system. The recombinant NPt-VP1198-297 protein had 
elicited neutralizing antibodies against EV71 with the titer of 1:16, and this 
result is higher than the titer that is elicited by VP1 protein alone (1:8). It 
was shown that NPt containing immunogenic epitope(s) of VP1 was capable of 
inducing a greater functional immune response when compared to full-length VP1 
protein alone. It was capable to carry larger polypeptide compared to 
full-length NP protein. The current study also proved that NPt-VP1198-297 
protein can be abundantly produced in recombinant protein form by E. coli 
expression system. The findings from this study support the importance of 
neutralizing antibodies in EV71 infection and highlight the potential of the 
recombinant NPt-VP1198-297 protein as EV71 vaccine.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines8040742
PMCID: PMC7762238
PMID: 33297428

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


104. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1586:65-82. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6887-9_5.

Optimizing Expression and Solubility of Proteins in E. coli Using Modified Media 
and Induction Parameters.

Taylor T(1), Denson JP(1), Esposito D(2).

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression Laboratory, Cancer Research Technology Program, Frederick 
National Laboratory for Cancer Research, P.O. Box B, Frederick, MD, 21702-1201, 
USA.
(2)Protein Expression Laboratory, Cancer Research Technology Program, Frederick 
National Laboratory for Cancer Research, P.O. Box B, Frederick, MD, 21702-1201, 
USA. dom.esposito@fnlcr.nih.gov.

The major goal of any protein expression experiment is to combine the maximum 
production per cell of soluble protein with the highest possible cell density to 
most efficiently obtain high yields of protein. A large number of parameters can 
be optimized in these experiments, but one of the most interesting parameters 
that have a strong effect on both per cell productivity and cell density is the 
cellular growth media coupled to the expression induction process. Using 
specialized media and testing multiple induction conditions, it is possible to 
significantly enhance the production of heterologous proteins from E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6887-9_5
PMID: 28470599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2009 May;75(10):3137-45. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02667-08. Epub 
2009 Mar 20.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for enhanced production of (R)- and 
(S)-3-hydroxybutyrate.

Tseng HC(1), Martin CH, Nielsen DR, Prather KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Synthetic metabolic pathways have been constructed for the production of 
enantiopure (R)- and (S)-3-hydroxybutyrate (3HB) from glucose in recombinant 
Escherichia coli strains. To promote maximal activity, we profiled three 
thiolase homologs (BktB, Thl, and PhaA) and two coenzyme A (CoA) removal 
mechanisms (Ptb-Buk and TesB). Two enantioselective 3HB-CoA dehydrogenases, 
PhaB, producing the (R)-enantiomer, and Hbd, producing the (S)-enantiomer, were 
utilized to control the 3HB chirality across two E. coli backgrounds, 
BL21Star(DE3) and MG1655(DE3), representing E. coli B- and K-12-derived strains, 
respectively. MG1655(DE3) was found to be superior for the production of each 
3HB stereoisomer, although the recombinant enzymes exhibited lower in vitro 
specific activities than BL21Star(DE3). Hbd in vitro activity was significantly 
higher than PhaB activity in both strains. The engineered strains achieved 
titers of enantiopure (R)-3HB and (S)-3HB as high as 2.92 g liter(-1) and 2.08 g 
liter(-1), respectively, in shake flask cultures within 2 days. The NADPH/NADP+ 
ratio was found to be two- to three-fold higher than the NADH/NAD+ ratio under 
the culture conditions examined, presumably affecting in vivo activities of PhaB 
and Hbd and resulting in greater production of (R)-3HB than (S)-3HB. To the best 
of our knowledge, this study reports the highest (S)-3HB titer achieved in shake 
flask E. coli cultures to date.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02667-08
PMCID: PMC2681625
PMID: 19304817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Virol J. 2011 Feb 24;8:82. doi: 10.1186/1743-422X-8-82.

Expression and characterization of recombinant VP19c protein and N-terminal from 
duck enteritis virus.

Xiang J(1), Zhang S, Cheng A, Wang M, Chang H, Shen C, Zhu D, Jia R, Luo Q, Chen 
Z, Chen X.

Author information:
(1)Avian Diseases Research Center, College of Veterinary Medicine of Sichuan 
Agricultural University,Ya'an, Sichuan, PR China.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have indicated that the VP19c protein and its 
homology play similar roles in capsid assembly of all Alphaherpesvirus 
subfamily. However, there is no report on the VP19c protein of duck enteritis 
virus (DEV). In this study, we expressed the DEV VP19c protein and presented its 
antigenic properties. Moreover, we developed polyclonal antibody against the 
VP19c protein and characterized it.
METHODS: A recombinant VP19c (rVP19c) and N-terminal were expressed in 
Escherichia coli (E.coli) and purified by Ni²+-affinity chromatography. The 
antigenic properties of the recombinant protein were determined by Western blot 
and indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Furthermore, the 
polyclonal antibodies against the purified recombinant proteins were produced 
and the titer of polyclonal antibody was determined by ELISA analysis. Finally, 
the antibody was used to recognize the VP19c in the cells infected with DEV in 
the immunofluorescence assay.
RESULTS: The N-terminally His-tagged rVP19c and rVP19c(N) were produced as 
inclusion bodies in E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) with molecular weight of about 66 
and 46 kDa. Then the proteins were purified to reach the level of homogeneity. 
Western blot and ELISA analysis that the rVP19c seems to be structurally and 
antigenically very similar to native VP19c and the N-terminus of VP19c may 
contain most antigenic linear-epitopes. Furthermore, ELISA analysis demonstrated 
that the titer of polyclonal antibody was approximately 1:12800, and in the 
immunofluorescence assay, the antibody was able to recognize the VP19c in the 
cells infected with DEV.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this was the first report on basic properties of 
DEV VP19c protein. In the present study, we obtained a high-level expression of 
the recombinant VP19c protein as well as high titers of rabbit polyclonal 
antibody against to VP19c protein. The anti-rVP19c serum was able to detect the 
VP19c protein in DEV infected cells and the VP19c protein targeted to the 
nucleus as distinct punctate speckles. This specific polyclonal antibody 
provides a good tool for further studying structural and functional 
characterization of DEV VP19c.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-422X-8-82
PMCID: PMC3050827
PMID: 21349183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2017 Jan 1;482(1):120-125. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.09.047. Epub 2016 Sep 12.

A novel expression vector for the improved solubility of recombinant scorpion 
venom in Escherichia coli.

Han T(1), Ming H(1), Deng L(1), Zhu H(1), Liu Z(1), Zhang J(1), Song Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Biopharmaceutics, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, 103 Wenhua Road, Shenyang, Liaoning Province 110016, China.
(2)School of Life Science and Biopharmaceutics, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, 103 Wenhua Road, Shenyang, Liaoning Province 110016, China. 
Electronic address: songyongbo@syphu.edu.cn.

Recombinant scorpion anti-excitation peptide (rANEP) has previously been 
expressed using the pET32a system and purified via affinity chromatography. 
However, rANEP is expressed in BL21(DE3) cells as an inclusion body, and the 
affinity tag can not be removed. To overcome this problem, we used a variety of 
protein, DsbA, MBP, TrxA, intein, and affinity tags in fusion and co-expression 
to achieve soluble and functional rANEP without any affinity tag. In the 
pCIT-ANEP expression vector, the highest soluble expression level was 
approximately 90% of the total cellular proteins in E. coli, and the rANEP was 
cleaved by the intein protein and subsequently purified to obtain rANEP, which 
had the same activity as the natural ANEP. The purity of rANEP obtained using 
this method was over 95%, with a quantity of 5.1 mg from of purified rANEP from 
1 L of culture. This method could expand the application of the soluble 
expression of disulfide-rich peptides in E. coli.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.09.047
PMID: 27634220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. FEBS Open Bio. 2020 Apr;10(4):546-551. doi: 10.1002/2211-5463.12808. Epub 2020 
Mar 9.

Engineered small metal-binding protein tag improves the production of 
recombinant human growth hormone in the periplasm of Escherichia coli.

Perez-Perez DA(1), Pioquinto-Avila E(1), Arredondo-Espinoza E(1), 
Morones-Ramirez JR(1)(2), Balderas-Renteria I(1)(2), Zarate X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, Mexico.
(2)Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, Centro de 
Investigacion en Biotecnologia y Nanotecnologia, Parque de Investigacion e 
Innovacion Tecnologica, Apodaca, Mexico.

Fusion proteins play an important role in the production of recombinant proteins 
in Escherichia coli. They are mostly used for cytoplasmic expression since they 
can be designed to increase the solubility of the target protein, which then can 
be easily purified via affinity chromatography. In contrast, fusion proteins are 
not usually included in construct designs for periplasmic production. Instead, a 
signal sequence is inserted for protein transport into the periplasm and a 
C-terminal his-tag added for subsequent purification. Our research group has 
proposed the small metal-binding protein (SmbP) isolated from the periplasm of 
Nitrosomonas europaea as a new fusion protein to express recombinant proteins in 
the cytoplasm or periplasm of E. coli. SmbP also allows purification via 
immobilized metal affinity chromatography using Ni(II) ions. Recently, we have 
optimized the periplasmic production of proteins tagged with SmbP by exchanging 
its native signal peptide with one taken from pectate lyase B (PelB), 
substantially increasing the amount of protein produced. In this work, we have 
expressed and purified soluble bioactive human growth hormone (hGH) tagged with 
PelB-SmbP and obtained the highest periplasmic production reported for this 
protein so far. Its activity, tested on Nb2-11 cells, was equivalent to 
commercial growth hormone at 50 ng·mL-1 . Therefore, we strongly recommend the 
use of PelB-SmbP as a protein tag for the expression and purification of hGH or 
other possible target proteins in the periplasm of E. coli.

© 2020 The Authors. Published by FEBS Press and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/2211-5463.12808
PMCID: PMC7137794
PMID: 32049439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


109. Adv Biomed Res. 2019 Oct 31;8:65. doi: 10.4103/abr.abr_212_18. eCollection 2019.

Improvement of Soluble Production of Reteplase in Escherichia coli by 
Optimization of Chemical Chaperones in Lysis Buffer.

Fazeli B(1), Akbari V(1), Barkhordari A(1), Mir Mohammad Sadeghi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Isfahan Pharmaceutical Research 
Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Reteplase is a nonglycosylated derivative of recombinant tissue 
plasminogen activator, a thrombolytic agent, which can be easily expressed in 
Escherichia coli. However, overexpression of reteplase in E. coli usually leads 
to accumulation of insoluble and inactive aggregates and inclusion bodies. In 
the present study, we aimed to optimize chemical additives of lysis buffer to 
avoid the initial aggregation and formation of inclusion bodies of reteplase at 
cell disruption step.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After protein expression in E. coli BL21 (DE3), the 
bacterial cells were disrupted in different lysis buffers using microsmashing. 
Eleven chemical additives at two concentration levels were combined based on a 
Plackett-Burman design to prepare 12 different lysis buffers used at cell 
disruption stage. Then, three additives with the most positive effect on 
improvement of solubility of reteplase were chosen and used for the second 
screening based on Box-Behnken model.
RESULTS: The primary screening results showed that among 11 additives, arginine, 
K2PO4, and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) had the most positive effect on 
solubility of reteplase. Our final results based on 14 runs of Box-Behnken 
design showed that the optimum buffer additive condition is 0.005 mg/ml CTAB, 
0.065 mg/ml arginine, and 0.026 mg/ml K2PO4. Sodium dodecyl 
sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis and Western blotting of 
soluble and total fraction of samples confirmed that these additives 
significantly improved soluble production of reteplase compared with control.
CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that the application of chemical additives in 
cell lysis can improve the solubility of reteplase. Further studies are still 
required to understand the exact mechanism of chemical additives as a chemical 
chaperone during cell lysis.

Copyright: © 2019 Advanced Biomedical Research.

DOI: 10.4103/abr.abr_212_18
PMCID: PMC6839271
PMID: 31737582

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


110. Methods Mol Biol. 2005;310:115-21. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59259-948-6_8.

Screening for the expression of soluble recombinant protein in Escherichia coli.

Doyle SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Proteomics Group, DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, CA, USA.

Protein expression and purification have traditionally been time-consuming, 
case-specific endeavors, and are considered to be the greatest bottlenecks in 
most proteomics pipelines. Escherichia coli (E. coli) is the most convenient and 
cost-effective host, although optimal conditions for the expression of different 
proteins vary widely. Proteins vary in their structural stability, solubility, 
and toxicity in this environment, resulting in differing rates of protein 
degradation, formation into insoluble inclusion bodies, and cell death, thus 
affecting the amount of soluble protein that can be obtained from E. coli grown 
in culture. To take full advantage of a variety of strategies developed to 
improve the expression of soluble protein in E. coli, an easy, rapid means to 
test many growth parameters is necessary. This chapter describes a dot-blot 
expression screen to test the effects of growth and induction parameters on the 
yield of soluble protein. The expression screen is used to detect 
hexahistidine-tagged proteins expressed in E. coli; however, it is adaptable for 
the detection of other affinity tags or fusion partners that have suitable 
antibodies available. In this example, induction time and temperature are 
tested; however, it can be used to test additional parameters, such as affinity 
tag type and placement, E. coli host type, and growth medium formulations.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59259-948-6_8
PMID: 16350950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Microb Cell Fact. 2018 Mar 28;17(1):50. doi: 10.1186/s12934-018-0894-y.

Development an effective system to expression recombinant protein in E. coli via 
comparison and optimization of signal peptides: Expression of Pseudomonas 
fluorescens BJ-10 thermostable lipase as case study.

Zhang W(1), Lu J(1), Zhang S(1), Liu L(1), Pang X(2), Lv J(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agro-food Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), Beijing, 100193, China.
(2)Institute of Agro-food Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), Beijing, 100193, China. pangxiaoyang@163.com.
(3)Institute of Agro-food Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), Beijing, 100193, China. kjdairy@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Thermostable lipases from microbial sources have been substantially 
overexpressed in E. coli, however, these enzymes are often produced with 
low-level enzymatic activity and mainly in the form of inclusion bodies. Several 
studies have reported that the secretory production of recombinant proteins 
fused their N-terminus to a signal peptide has been employed to resolve the 
problem. In general, the feasibility of this approach largely depends on the 
secretory pathway of signal peptide and the type of target protein to be 
secreted. This study was performed to compare and optimize signal peptides for 
efficient secretion of thermostable lipase lipBJ10 from Pseudomonas fluorescens 
BJ-10. Meanwhile, a comparative study between this method and cytoplasmic 
secretion was implemented in secreting soluble and active lipases.
RESULTS: Fusion expression using six signal peptides, i.e., PelB and five native 
E. coli signal peptides, as fusion partners produced more soluble and functional 
recombinant lipBJ10 than non-fusion expression. Recombinant lipBJ10, fused to 
these six diverse signal peptides, was secreted into the periplasm in E. coli. 
The total lipase activity in all cases of fusion expression was higher than 
those in non-fusion expression. The relative activity peaked when lipBJ10 was 
fused to DsbA, yielding a value 73.3 times greater than that of the non-fusion 
protein. When DsbA was used as the fusion partner, the highest activity 
(265.41 U/ml) was achieved with the least formation of inclusion bodies; the 
other four E. coli signal peptides, to some extent, led to low activity and 
insoluble inclusion bodies. Therefore, DsbA is the optimal signal peptide 
partner to fuse with lipBJ10 to efficiently produce soluble and functional 
protein.
CONCLUSION: We found that fusing to these signal peptides, especially that of 
DsbA, can significantly decrease the formation of inclusion bodies and enhance 
the function and solubility of lipBJ10 compared to non-fusion lipBJ10. Our 
results reported here can provide a reference for the high-level expression of 
other lipases with respect to a possible industrial application.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-018-0894-y
PMCID: PMC5872382
PMID: 29592803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. J Biotechnol. 2012 Feb 20;157(4):633-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2011.06.008. 
Epub 2011 Jun 23.

Production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid via malonyl-CoA pathway using recombinant 
Escherichia coli strains.

Rathnasingh C(1), Raj SM, Lee Y, Catherine C, Ashok S, Park S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Pusan National 
University, Busan 609-735, Republic of Korea.

Malonyl-CoA is an intermediary compound that is produced during fatty acid 
metabolism. Our study aimed to produce the commercially important platform 
chemical 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) from its immediate precursor malonyl-CoA 
by recombinant Escherichia coli strains heterologously expressing the mcr gene 
of Chloroflexus aurantiacus DSM 635, encoding an NADPH-dependent malonyl-CoA 
reductase (MCR). The recombinant E. coli overexpressing mcr under the T5 
promoter showed MCR activity of 0.015 U mg⁻¹ protein in crude cell extract and 
produced 0.71 mmol/L of 3-HP in 24h in shake flask cultivation under aerobic 
conditions with glucose as the sole source of carbon. When acetyl-CoA 
carboxylase and biotinilase, encoded by the genes accADBCb (ACC) of E. coli K-12 
were overexpressed along with MCR, the final 3-HP titer improved by 2-fold, 
which is 1.6 mM. Additional expression of the gene pntAB, encoding nicotinamide 
nucleotide transhydrogenase that converts NADH to NADPH, increased 3-HP 
production to 2.14 mM. The strain was further developed by deleting the sucAB 
gene, encoding α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex in tricarboxylic acid (TCA) 
cycle, or blocking lactate and acetate production pathways, and evaluated for 
the production of 3-HP. We report on the feasibility of producing 3-HP from 
glucose through the malonyl-CoA pathway.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2011.06.008
PMID: 21723339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Med Life. 2019 Apr-Jun;12(2):184-191. doi: 10.25122/jml-2018-0049.

Bioinformatics analysis of various signal peptides for periplasmic expression of 
parathyroid hormone in E.coli.

Juibari AD(1), Ramezani S(1), Rezadoust MH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.
(2)Faculty of Agriculture, University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.

Hypoparathyroidism is a rare endocrine disease which is characterized by the 
deficiency of serum calcium levels. RhPTH is prescribed as a therapy for the 
management of refractory hypoparathyroidism. The aim of this study is to 
investigate 32 signal peptides of gram-negative bacterial origin and evaluate 
their potential for efficient secretion of recombinant human PTH (1-84)In E.coli 
to obtain higher expression of recombinant PTH in bacterial systems by using 
this fusion partner. SignalP and ProtParam servers were employed to predict the 
presence and location of signal peptide cleavage sites in protein sequence and 
computation of various physical and chemical parameters of protein respectively. 
Also, SOLpro server was applied for prediction of the protein solubility. Then 
ProtComp and SecretomeP online servers were employed to determine protein 
location. The evaluations showed that theoretically two signal peptides 
Lipopolysaccharide export system protein LptA (lptA) and Periplasmic 
pH-dependent serine endoprotease DegQ (degQ) are the most appropriate signal 
peptides examined. Due to the lack of post-translational modification in PTH, 
its periplasmic expression has preferences. Based on the results of this study, 
using bioinformatics and reliable servers signal peptides with appropriate 
secretory potential can be obtained which lead to the highest expression level.

DOI: 10.25122/jml-2018-0049
PMCID: PMC6685308
PMID: 31406522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jun;47(2):645-50. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.01.018. Epub 
2006 Feb 17.

High-level expression and purification of Escherichia coli oligopeptidase B.

Yan JB(1), Wang GQ, Du P, Zhu DX, Wang MW, Jiang XY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical 
Biotechnology, Nanjing University, PR China.

Oligopeptidase B (OpdB) of Escherichia coli, previously called protease II, has 
a trypsin-like specificity, cleaving peptides at lysine and arginine residues 
and belongs to the prolyl oligopeptidase family of new serine peptidases. In 
this study, we report the fusion expression of E. coli oligopeptidase B with an 
N-terminal histidine tag using pET28a as the expression vector. Although most of 
the recombinant OpdB was produced as inclusion bodies, the solubility of the 
recombinant protease increased significantly when the expression temperature 
shifted from 37 to 30 degrees C. Recombinant OpdB (approximately 10 mg) could be 
purified from the soluble fraction of the crude extract of 1L log-phase E. coli 
culture containing 1.5 g wet bacterial cells. The purified OpdB has a molecular 
weight of approximately 80 kDa and a specific activity of 4.8 x 10(4) U/mg. OpdB 
could also be purified from the inclusion bodies with a lower yield. The 
recombinant enzyme was very stable under 40 degrees C. By comparison of the 
substrate specificity of the purified OpdB with that of OpdA, another 
trypsin-like protease in E. coli, we found that Boc-Glu-Lys-Lys-MCA is a 
specific substrate for E. coli OpdB. We also found that compared to OpdA, OpdB 
is much more sensitive to GMCHA-OPh(t)Bu, a synthetic trypsin inhibitor that can 
retard the growth of E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.01.018
PMID: 16515865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Microb Cell Fact. 2021 Jul 30;20(1):150. doi: 10.1186/s12934-021-01638-8.

Expression of the human molecular chaperone domain Bri2 BRICHOS on a gram per 
liter scale with an E. coli fed-batch culture.

Schmuck B(1)(2), Chen G(3), Pelcman J(3), Kronqvist N(3), Rising A(3)(4), 
Johansson J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Neo, 141 86, 
Huddinge, Sweden. benjamin.schmuck@ki.se.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Physiology, and Biochemistry, Swedish University of 
Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden. benjamin.schmuck@ki.se.
(3)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Neo, 141 86, 
Huddinge, Sweden.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Physiology, and Biochemistry, Swedish University of 
Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The human Bri2 BRICHOS domain inhibits amyloid formation and 
toxicity and could be used as a therapeutic agent against amyloid diseases. For 
translation into clinical use, large quantities of correctly folded recombinant 
human (rh) Bri2 BRICHOS are required. To increase the expression and solubility 
levels of rh Bri2 BRICHOS it was fused to NT*, a solubility tag derived from the 
N-terminal domain of a spider silk protein, which significantly increases 
expression levels and solubility of target proteins. To increase the expression 
levels even further and reach the g/L range, which is a prerequisite for an 
economical production on an industrial scale, we developed a fed-batch 
expression protocol for Escherichia coli.
RESULTS: A fed-batch production method for NT*-Bri2 BRICHOS was set up and 
systematically optimized. This gradual improvement resulted in expression levels 
of up to 18.8 g/L. Following expression, NT*-Bri2 BRICHOS was purified by 
chromatographic methods to a final yield of up to 6.5 g/L. After removal of the 
NT*-tag and separation into different oligomeric species, activity assays 
verified that different assembly states of the fed-batch produced rh Bri2 
BRICHOS have the same ability to inhibit fibrillar and non-fibrillar protein 
aggregation as the reference protein isolated from shake flask cultures.
CONCLUSIONS: The protocol developed in this work allows the production of large 
quantities of rh Bri2 BRICHOS using the solubility enhancing NT*-tag as a fusion 
partner, which is required to effectively conduct pre-clinical research.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-021-01638-8
PMCID: PMC8325310
PMID: 34330289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


116. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Oct;73(2):203-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.05.001. Epub 
2010 May 10.

Human SUMO fusion systems enhance protein expression and solubility.

Wang Z(1), Li H, Guan W, Ling H, Wang Z, Mu T, Shuler FD, Fang X.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Molecular Enzymology and Engineering of Ministry of 
Education, Jilin University, 2519 Jiefang Road, Changchun 130021, China.

A major challenge associated with recombinant protein production in Escherichia 
coli is generation of large quantities of soluble, functional protein. Yeast 
SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier), has been shown to enhance heterologous 
protein expression and solubility as fusion tag, however, the effects of human 
SUMOs on protein expression have not been investigated. Here we describe the use 
of human SUMO1 and SUMO2 as a useful gene fusion technology. Human SUMO1 and 
SUMO2 fusion expression vectors were constructed and tested in His-tag and 
ubiquitin fusion expression systems. Two difficult-to-express model proteins, 
matrix metalloprotease-13 (MMP13) and enhanced green fluorescence protein (eGFP) 
were fused to the C-terminus of the human SUMO1 and SUMO2 expression vectors. 
These constructs were expressed in E. coli and evaluation of MMP13 and eGFP 
expression and solubility was conducted. We found that both SUMO1 and SUMO2 had 
the ability to enhance the solubility of MMP13 and eGFP, with the SUMO2 tag 
having a more significant effect. Since fusion tags produce varying quantities 
of soluble proteins, we assessed the effect of SUMO2 coupled with ubiquitin 
(Ub). SUMO2-ubiquitin and ubiquitin-SUMO2 fusion expression plasmids were 
constructed with eGFP as a passenger protein. Following expression in E. coli, 
both plasmids could improve eGFP expression and solubility similar to the SUMO2 
fusion and better than the ubiquitin fusion. The sequential order of SUMO2 and 
ubiquitin had little effect on expression and solubility of eGFP. Purification 
of eGFP from the gene fusion product, SUMO2-ubiquitin-eGFP, involved cleavage by 
a deubiquitinase (Usp2-cc) and Ni-Sepharose column chromatography. The eGFP 
protein was purified to high homogeneity. In summary, human SUMO1 and SUMO2 are 
useful gene fusion technologies enhancing the expression, solubility and 
purification of model heterologous proteins.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.05.001
PMID: 20457256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1140:75-88. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0354-2_6.

Expression and solubility testing in a high-throughput environment.

Kwon K(1), Peterson SN.

Author information:
(1)J. Craig Venter Institute, 9704 Medical Center Drive, Rockville, MD, 20850, 
USA, kkwon@jcvi.org.

The expression and screening of the solubility of recombinant proteins is an 
important step in the high-throughput (HT) production of target proteins. For 
many applications, E. coli remains the most widely used expression system due to 
the relative ease of adapting it to HT pipelines. Herein is described a platform 
using a 96-well format for efficient expression and solubility screening of 
target proteins.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0354-2_6
PMID: 24590710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Iran Biomed J. 2013;17(4):165-70. doi: 10.6091/ibj.1216.2013.

Expression and purification of neurotoxin-associated protein HA-33/A from 
Clostridium botulinum and evaluation of its antigenicity.

Sayadmanesh A(1), Ebrahimi F(1), Hajizade A(1), Rostamian M(1), Keshavarz H(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Imam Hussein University, Tehran, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) complexes consist of neurotoxin and 
neurotoxin-associated proteins. Hemagglutinin-33 (HA-33) is a member of BoNT 
type A (BoNT/A) complex. Considering the protective role of HA-33 in 
preservation of BoNT/A in gastrointestinal harsh conditions and also its 
adjuvant role, recombinant production of this protein is favorable. Thus in this 
study, HA-33 was expressed and purified, and subsequently its antigenicity in 
mice was studied.
METHODS: Initially, ha-33 gene sequence of Clostridium botulinum serotype A was 
adopted from GenBank. The gene sequence was optimized and synthesized in pET28a 
(+) vector. E. coli BL21 (DE3) strain was transformed by the recombinant vector 
and the expression of HA-33 was optimized at 37°C and 5 h induction time.
RESULTS: The recombinant protein was purified by nickel nitrilotriacetic acid 
agarose affinity chromatography and confirmed by immunoblotting. Enzyme Linked 
Immunoassay showed a high titer antibody production in mice.
CONCLUSION: The results indicated a highly expressed and purified recombinant 
protein, which is able to evoke high antibody titers in mice.

DOI: 10.6091/ibj.1216.2013
PMCID: PMC3882918
PMID: 23999711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Mar;143:77-82. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.11.001. Epub 
2017 Nov 7.

Recombinant alpha-fetoprotein receptor-binding domain co-expression with 
polyglutamate tags facilitates in vivo folding in E. coli.

Mollaev M(1), Gorokhovets N(2), Nikolskaya E(3), Faustova M(1), Zabolotsky A(1), 
Sokol M(4), Tereshenko O(4), Zhunina O(4), Shvets V(1), Severin E(4), Yabbarov 
N(5).

Author information:
(1)Moscow Technological University, Institute of Fine Chemical Technologies, 
119571, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, 119991, Moscow, Russia.
(3)A. Tsyb Medical Radiological Research Center, 249036, Obninsk, Russia.
(4)ANO Institute for Molecular Diagnostics, 117149, Moscow, Russia.
(5)A. Tsyb Medical Radiological Research Center, 249036, Obninsk, Russia. 
Electronic address: nikita_yabbarov@yahoo.com.

A wide range of methods are known to increase the prokaryotic intracellular 
recombinant proteins solubility, for instance, growth at low temperature, 
supplementation of culture media with "chemical chaperones" (proline, 
glycine-betaine, and trehalose), co-expression with chaperones or highly soluble 
fusion partners. As an alternative, we have introduced the polyglutamate tag, 
which, as it has been shown, increased the protein solubility and facilitated 
folding. In this study we evaluated the minimal quantity of high density 
negatively charged EEEEVE amino acid repeats (pGlu) necessary to switch the 
recombinant receptor-binding domain of human alpha-fetoprotein (rbdAFP) 
expression almost entirely from the inclusion bodies to the soluble cytoplasmic 
fraction in E. coli. For this purpose, genetic constructs based on pET vectors 
coding rbdAFP and containing from 1 to 4 additional EEEEVE repeats at the 
C-terminus have been prepared. It was found that 3 pGlu repeats is the minimal 
number, that leads to a complete shift of the expression to the soluble 
cytoplasmic fraction in E. coli SHuffle Express T7 while 4 repeats were required 
for that in E. coli BL21(DE3). The rbdAFP contained 4 pGlu repeats was purified 
making use of ion-exchange chromatography and characterized by circular 
dichroism and ability to bind and accumulate in AFP receptor positive cancer 
cells in order to check for the structural and specific activity alterations 
related to the additional polyanionic sequence introduction.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.11.001
PMID: 29127003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Biotechnol. 2017 Aug 10;255:9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.06.011. Epub 
2017 Jun 13.

Improved soluble bacterial expression and properties of the recombinant 
flavonoid glucosyltransferase UGT73G1 from Allium cepa.

Cai R(1), Chen C(1), Li Y(2), Sun K(1), Zhou F(1), Chen K(1), Jia H(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, Nanjing 211816, China.
(2)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, Nanjing 211816, China; Yichang Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis, China 
Three Gorges University, Yichang 443002, China. Electronic address: 
liyan@njtech.edu.cn.

Glycosylation of quercetin using flavonol-specific glycosyltransferases offers 
an alternate method for isoquercitrin production. Obtaining sufficient 
quantities of bioactive enzymes is an important prerequisite for highly 
effective biocatalysis and biotransformation. In this study, a codon-optimized 
gene for the flavonoid glucosyltransferase UGT73G1 from Allium cepa was 
heterologously expressed in the preferred prokaryotic expression host 
Escherichia coli. By combining expression as a fusion protein with 6-histidine 
tags with coexpression with molecular chaperones, increased soluble expression 
of UGT73G1 was achieved in E. coli. Two-terminal 6-histidine tags contributed 
more to the expression than molecular chaperones, as demonstrated by comparison 
of specific activities in crude extracts obtained from the recombinant E. coli 
strains. Studies of the catalytic properties of purified UGT73G1 indicated that 
its activity was significantly promoted by Mn2+ and Mg2+, while it was strongly 
inhibited by Cu2+. These expression strategies enhanced the solubility and 
activity of the overexpressed protein and enabled characterization of this 
plant-derived glucosyltransferase expressed in a prokaryotic host.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.06.011
PMID: 28627388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. J Biochem. 2009 Nov;146(5):713-23. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvp117. Epub 2009 Jul 24.

Expression, purification and characterization of soluble recombinant periostin 
protein produced by Escherichia coli.

Takayama I(1), Kii I, Kudo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Information, Graduate School of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259 Midori-ku, Nagatsuta, 
Yokohama 226-8501, Japan.

Periostin is a matricellular protein participating in the tissue remodelling of 
damaged cardiac tissue after acute myocardial infarction and of the periodontal 
ligament in mice. However, further studies on the periostin protein have been 
limited by the intrinsic difficulty of purifying this protein produced in 
Escherichia coli due to its insolubility. Here, we demonstrate the expression of 
recombinant periostin protein with high solubility and monodispersity in E. 
coli. Periostin is composed of an amino-terminal EMI domain, a tandem repeat of 
4 fas1 domains (RD1-4), and a carboxyl-terminal region (CTR). We expressed the 
RD4-CTR region tagged with GST at amino-terminal and 6x Histidine at 
carboxyl-terminal end in E. coli. The recombinant protein was purified by using 
GSH-Sepharose and nickel chelation affinity chromatography, followed by gel 
filtration chromatography. The RD4-CTR protein exhibited high solubility and 
monodispersity. On average, 9.1 mg of purified RD4-CTR was routinely obtained 
from 1 L of culture media. Furthermore, the RD4-CTR was biochemically active, 
because it bound to the RD1-4, the same as intact periostin protein that had 
been purified from mammalian cells. Our results should enable us to produce the 
periostin recombinant protein in large quantities and facilitate future studies 
on functional and structural analyses of periostin.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvp117
PMID: 19633058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Feb;39(2):288-95. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.10.024.

Expression, purification of human vasostatin120-180 in Escherichia coli, and its 
anti-angiogenic characterization.

Sun QM(1), Cao L, Fang L, Chen C, Dai J, Chen LL, Hua ZC.

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Department of 
Biochemistry, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, PR 
China.

According to codon preference of Escherichia coli, the optimized coding sequence 
of human vasostatin120-180aa (VAS) was obtained by chemical synthesis and 
molecular cloning methods. Using PCR and enzyme digestion, the full encoding 
sequence for VAS was cloned into the E. coli expression vector pALEX and 
expressed as a GST fusion protein in BL21 (DE3) strain. GST-VAS protein 
approximately accounted for 45% of the total bacterial proteins. Most of target 
protein existed in inclusion body. To improve the solubility of GST-VAS, the 
contribution of low temperature and molecular chaperone co-expression to the 
solubility of GST-VAS was tested. The results showed that co-expression with 
chaperons, TF and GroES/GroEL, and low expression temperature cooperatively 
improved the solubility of GST-VAS from 10 to 85%, and the yield of soluble 
GST-VAS was sixfold increased. When purified by GST affinity chromatography, 50 
mg GST-VAS was obtained with purity over 85% from 1 L culture. Intact VAS was 
released by enterokinase digestion and further purified by Sephadex G50 gel 
filtration chromatography. About 7.2 mg intact homogeneous VAS protein was 
finally produced from 1L bacterial culture. The identity of GST-VAS and VAS was 
validated by Western blotting analysis. Recombinant VAS protein displayed 
distinct inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation and anti-angiogenic 
activity by chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane assay.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.10.024
PMID: 15642481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. J Struct Biol. 2011 Aug;175(2):159-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jsb.2011.03.004. Epub 2011 
Mar 5.

Expression of protein complexes using multiple Escherichia coli protein 
co-expression systems: a benchmarking study.

Busso D(1), Peleg Y, Heidebrecht T, Romier C, Jacobovitch Y, Dantes A, Salim L, 
Troesch E, Schuetz A, Heinemann U, Folkers GE, Geerlof A, Wilmanns M, Polewacz 
A, Quedenau C, Büssow K, Adamson R, Blagova E, Walton J, Cartwright JL, Bird LE, 
Owens RJ, Berrow NS, Wilson KS, Sussman JL, Perrakis A, Celie PH.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), 
Institut National de Santé et de Recherche Médicale (Inserm), U964/Centre 
National deRecherche Scientifique (CNRS), UMR 7104, Université de Strasbourg, 1 
Rue Laurent Fries, 67404 Illkirch, France.

Escherichia coli (E. coli) remains the most commonly used host for recombinant 
protein expression. It is well known that a variety of experimental factors 
influence the protein production level as well as the solubility profile of 
over-expressed proteins. This becomes increasingly important for optimizing 
production of protein complexes using co-expression strategies. In this study, 
we focus on the effect of the choice of the expression vector system: by 
standardizing experimental factors including bacterial strain, cultivation 
temperature and growth medium composition, we compare the effectiveness of 
expression technologies used by the partners of the Structural Proteomics in 
Europe 2 (SPINE2-complexes) consortium. Four different protein complexes, 
including three binary and one ternary complex, all known to be produced in the 
soluble form in E. coli, are used as the benchmark targets. The respective genes 
were cloned by each partner into their preferred set of vectors. The resulting 
constructs were then used for comparative co-expression analysis done in 
parallel and under identical conditions at a single site. Our data show that 
multiple strategies can be applied for the expression of protein complexes in 
high yield. While there is no 'silver bullet' approach that was infallible even 
for this small test set, our observations are useful as a guideline to delineate 
co-expression strategies for particular protein complexes.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2011.03.004
PMID: 21382497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Mol Biotechnol. 2014 Jul;56(7):644-52. doi: 10.1007/s12033-014-9740-6.

High-yield expression in Escherichia coli, purification and application of 
budding yeast K2 killer protein.

Podoliankaitė M(1), Lukša J, Vyšniauskis G, Sereikaitė J, Melvydas V, Serva S, 
Servienė E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, Institute of Botany, Nature Research Centre, 
Akademijos Str. 2, 08412, Vilnius, Lithuania.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae K2 toxin is a highly active extracellular protein, 
important as a biocontrol agent for biotechnological applications in the wine 
industry. This protein is produced at negligible levels in yeast, making 
difficult to isolate it in amounts sufficient for investigation and generation 
of analysis tools. In this work, we demonstrate the use of a bacterial system 
for expression of the recombinant K2 protein, suitable for generation of 
antibodies specific for toxin of the yeast origin. Synthesis of the full-length 
S. cerevisiae K2 preprotoxin in Escherichia coli was found to be toxic to the 
host cell, resulting in diminished growth. Such effect was abolished by the 
introduction of the C-terminal truncation into K2 protein, directing it into 
non-toxic inclusion body fraction. The obtained protein is of limited solubility 
thus, facilitating the purification by simple and efficient chromatography-free 
procedure. The protein aggregates were successfully refolded into a soluble form 
yielding sufficient amounts of a tag-less truncated K2 protein suitable for 
polyclonal antibody production. Antibodies were raised in rabbit and found to be 
specific for detection of both antigen and native S. cerevisiae K2 toxin.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-014-9740-6
PMID: 24532228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Iran J Pharm Res. 2021 Winter;20(1):254-266. doi: 
10.22037/ijpr.2020.114377.14822.

RSM-based Model to Predict Optimum Fermentation Conditions for Soluble 
Expression of the Antibody Fragment Derived from 4D5MOC-B Humanized Mab in 
SHuffle™ T7 E. coli.

Behravan A(1), Hashemi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Overexpression of the EpCAM in epithelial-derived neoplasms makes this receptor 
a promising target in antibody-based therapy. Due to the lack of 
N-glycosylation, Escherichia coli (E. coli) seems to be the most appropriate 
choice for the expression of antibody fragments. However, developing a robust 
and cost-effective process that produces consistent therapeutic proteins from 
inclusion bodies is a major challenge. Undoubtedly, it can be circumvented by 
the soluble expression of these proteins. Utilization of numerous genetically 
modified hosts and optimization of cultivation conditions are two effective 
approaches widely used to overcome the insolubility problem. Due to the 
cytoplasmic expression of DsbC and the ability to the correct formation of 
disulfide bonds, the Shuffle™ T7 strain can be a suitable host for the soluble 
production of recombinant proteins. Here, Box-Behnken design (BBD)- Response 
surface methodology (RSM) modeling was employed to develop optimized culture 
conditions for 4D5MOC-B scFv fragment production in SHuffle™ T7 strain while 
solubility and production level were considered as responses. Although both 
responses were significantly influenced by post-induction temperature, cell 
density at induction time, and IPTG concentration, the temperature had the 
largest effect. The maximum experimental soluble protein obtained by adding 1 mM 
of IPTG into the M9 medium when the cell density reached 0.7 at 23 ᵒC was 693.56 
µg/mL which was in good correlation with the predicted value of 720.742 µg/mL. 
Predictable total expression value was also experimentally verified. This 
strategy can be scaled-up for the production of large amounts of scFvs from 
SHuffle™ T7 E. coli to facilitate their potential applications as therapeutic 
and diagnostic agents.

DOI: 10.22037/ijpr.2020.114377.14822
PMCID: PMC8170757
PMID: 34400955


126. BMC Biotechnol. 2008 Feb 19;8:15. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-8-15.

Solubility enhancement of aggregation-prone heterologous proteins by fusion 
expression using stress-responsive Escherichia coli protein, RpoS.

Park JS(1), Han KY, Lee JH, Song JA, Ahn KY, Seo HS, Sim SJ, Kim SW, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-713, South Korea. anorain@korea.ac.kr

BACKGROUND: The most efficient method for enhancing solubility of recombinant 
proteins appears to use the fusion expression partners. Although commercial 
fusion partners including maltose binding protein and glutathione-S-transferase 
have shown good performance in enhancing the solubility, they cannot be used for 
the proprietory production of commercially value-added proteins and likely 
cannot serve as universal helpers to solve all protein solubility and folding 
issues. Thus, novel fusion partners will continue to be developed through 
systematic investigations including proteome mining presented in this study.
RESULTS: We analyzed the Escherichia coli proteome response to the exogenous 
stress of guanidine hydrochloride using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis and 
found that RpoS (RNA polymerase sigma factor) was significantly stress 
responsive. While under the stress condition the total number of soluble 
proteins decreased by about 7 %, but a 6-fold increase in the level of RpoS was 
observed, indicating that RpoS is a stress-induced protein. As an N-terminus 
fusion expression partner, RpoS increased significantly the solubility of many 
aggregation-prone heterologous proteins in E. coli cytoplasm, indicating that 
RpoS is a very effective solubility enhancer for the synthesis of many 
recombinant proteins. RpoS was also well suited for the production of a 
biologically active fusion mutant of Pseudomonas putida cutinase.
CONCLUSION: RpoS is highly effective as a strong solubility enhancer for 
aggregation-prone heterologous proteins when it is used as a fusion expression 
partner in an E. coli expression system. The results of these findings may, 
therefore, be useful in the production of other biologically active industrial 
enzymes, as successfully demonstrated by cutinase.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-8-15
PMCID: PMC2278137
PMID: 18282304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Oct;34(10):942-948.

[Prokaryotic expression, purification and preparation of rat polyclonal antibody 
against Escherichia coli ZipA].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen Y(1), Niu X(2), Lin Y(3), Liu X(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for New Drug Screening & Evaluation, School of Pharmacy, Wannan 
Medical College, Wuhu 241002; Laboratory of Chemical Biology, Changchun 
Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, 
China.
(2)Center for New Drug Screening & Evaluation, School of Pharmacy, Wannan 
Medical College, Wuhu 241002, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Function of Natural 
Medicine, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China. *Corresponding authors, 
E-mail: linyuan@imm.ac.cn.
(4)Center for New Drug Screening & Evaluation, School of Pharmacy, Wannan 
Medical College, Wuhu 241002, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: 
liuxiaoping@wnmc.edu.cn.

Objective To prepare recombinant Escherichia coli filamentous thermosensitive 
protein Z-interacting protein A (Ec-ZipA) 185-328 amino acid functional protein 
and its specific rat polyclonal antibody. Methods The synthetic Ec-ZipA gene 
fragment was successfully cloned into pET-30a(+) vector. After transformation, 
recombinant Ec-ZipA was stably expressed under an optimal bacterial expression 
condition in E.coli BL21(DE3) cells, and purified by HisTrap affinity 
chromatography. Then the biological activity of purified Ec-ZipA was further 
analyzed by fluorescence polarization (FP). The anti-Ec-ZipA polyclonal antibody 
was prepared using recombinant Ec-ZipA as antigen to vaccinate rat 
subcutaneously. The titer and immunological specificity of the polyclonal 
antibody were determined by ELISA and Western blot analysis. Results The results 
of SDS-PAGE and Western blot showed that recombinant Ec-ZipA was successfully 
expressed and purified. The FP demonstrated a perfect biological activity for 
purified Ec-ZipA. The titer of polyclonal antibody was 1:512000 by ELISA, and 
Western blot confirmed high sensitivity and specificity of polyclonal antibody 
against recombinant and endogenous Ec-ZipA respectively. Conclusion The 
prokaryotic expression, and purification of Ec-ZipA is performed, and rat 
anti-Ec-ZipA polyclonal antibody is successfully prepared.

PMID: 30554589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2406:35-64. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_2.

Overcoming the Solubility Problem in E. coli: Available Approaches for 
Recombinant Protein Production.

Ortega C(1), Oppezzo P(1), Correa A(2).

Author information:
(1)Recombinant Protein Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo, 
Uruguay.
(2)Recombinant Protein Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Montevideo, 
Uruguay. acorrea@pasteur.edu.uy.

Despite the importance of recombinant protein production in the academy and 
industrial fields, many issues concerning the expression of soluble and 
homogeneous products are still unsolved. Several strategies were developed to 
overcome these obstacles; however, at present, there is no magic bullet that can 
be applied for all cases. Indeed, several key expression parameters need to be 
evaluated for each protein. Among the different hosts for protein expression, 
Escherichia coli is by far the most widely used. In this chapter, we review many 
of the different tools employed to circumvent protein insolubility problems.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_2
PMID: 35089549


129. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2013 Oct;110(10):2790-4. doi: 10.1002/bit.24925. Epub 2013 
Apr 22.

Butyrate production in engineered Escherichia coli with synthetic scaffolds.

Baek JM(1), Mazumdar S, Lee SW, Jung MY, Lim JH, Seo SW, Jung GY, Oh MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Sungbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, South Korea.

Butyrate pathway was constructed in recombinant Escherichia coli using the genes 
from Clostridium acetobutylicum and Treponema denticola. However, the pathway 
constructed from exogenous enzymes did not efficiently convert carbon flux to 
butyrate. Three steps of the productivity enhancement were attempted in this 
study. First, pathway engineering to delete metabolic pathways to by-products 
successfully improved the butyrate production. Second, synthetic scaffold 
protein that spatially co-localizes enzymes was introduced to improve the 
efficiency of the heterologous pathway enzymes, resulting in threefold 
improvement in butyrate production. Finally, further optimizations of inducer 
concentrations and pH adjustment were tried. The final titer of butyrate was 4.3 
and 7.2 g/L under batch and fed-batch cultivation, respectively. This study 
demonstrated the importance of synthetic scaffold protein as a useful tool for 
optimization of heterologous butyrate pathway in E. coli.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.24925
PMID: 23568786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Mar;82(1):174-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.11.017. Epub 
2011 Dec 8.

Ubiquitin-intein and SUMO2-intein fusion systems for enhanced protein production 
and purification.

Wang Z(1), Li N, Wang Y, Wu Y, Mu T, Zheng Y, Huang L, Fang X.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, PR China.

Erratum in
    Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Nov;86(1):82.

Although most commonly used for protein production, expression of soluble and 
functional recombinant protein in Escherichia coli is still a major challenge. 
The development and application of fusion tags that can facilitate protein 
expression and solubility partly solve this problem, however, under most 
circumstance, the fusion tags have to be removed by proteases in order to use 
the proteins. Because the tag removal using proteases increases cost and 
introduces extra purification steps, it remains a significant problem that must 
be resolved before being widely used in industry production. Ubiquitin and SUMO 
have been successfully used to enhance protein expression and solubility. In the 
last decades, intein has also been widely used in protein production for its 
self-cleavage property, which could help to remove the fusion tag without any 
protease. Here, we take the advantages of ubiquitin, SUMO2 and intein in protein 
expression. We constructed tandem ubiquitin-intein and SUMO2-intein fusion tags, 
and chose human MMP13 (amino acid 104-274) and eGFP as the passenger proteins 
that fused to the C-terminus of the tags. These constructs were expressed in E. 
coli and both MMP13 and eGFP expression and solubility were evaluated. Both tags 
showed the ability to enhance the solubility of MMP13 and eGFP and improve the 
expression of eGFP, and the SUMO2-intein having a more significant effect. Both 
ubiquitin-intein-eGFP and SUMO2-intein-eGFP were purified using Ni-NTA column 
chromatography and self-cleavaged by changing pH. The recombinant un-tagged eGFP 
were released and eluted with high homogeneity. In summary, ubiquitin-intein and 
SUMO2-intein are convenient and useful fusion tags that can enhance the 
expression, solubility and improve the purification process of the model 
heterologous protein and these tags may have a good prospect in protein 
production.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.11.017
PMID: 22178731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Microb Cell Fact. 2005 Jan 4;4(1):1. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-4-1.

Soluble expression of recombinant proteins in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli.

Sørensen HP(1), Mortensen KK.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of BioDesign, Department of Molecular Biology, Aarhus University, 
Gustav Wieds Vej 10C, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. kkm@mb.au.dk.

Pure, soluble and functional proteins are of high demand in modern 
biotechnology. Natural protein sources rarely meet the requirements for 
quantity, ease of isolation or price and hence recombinant technology is often 
the method of choice. Recombinant cell factories are constantly employed for the 
production of protein preparations bound for downstream purification and 
processing. Eschericia coli is a frequently used host, since it facilitates 
protein expression by its relative simplicity, its inexpensive and fast high 
density cultivation, the well known genetics and the large number of compatible 
molecular tools available. In spite of all these qualities, expression of 
recombinant proteins with E. coli as the host often results in insoluble and/or 
nonfunctional proteins. Here we review new approaches to overcome these 
obstacles by strategies that focus on either controlled expression of target 
protein in an unmodified form or by applying modifications using expressivity 
and solubility tags.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-4-1
PMCID: PMC544838
PMID: 15629064


132. J Biotechnol. 2021 Jan 10;325:380-388. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.09.012. Epub 
2020 Sep 15.

An enhanced toluene dioxygenase platform for the production of 
cis-1,2-dihydrocatechol in Escherichia coli BW25113 lacking glycerol 
dehydrogenase activity.

Wissner JL(1), Ludwig J(1), Escobedo-Hinojosa W(1), Hauer B(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Technical Biochemistry, University of Stuttgart, Allmandring 31, 
70569 Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)Institute of Technical Biochemistry, University of Stuttgart, Allmandring 31, 
70569 Stuttgart, Germany. Electronic address: 
bernhard.hauer@itb.uni-stuttgart.de.

The compound cis-1,2-dihydrocatechol (DHC) is highly valuable since it finds 
wide application in the production of fine chemicals and bioactive compounds 
with medical relevance. The biotechnological process to generate DHC involves a 
dearomatizing dihydroxylation reaction catalyzed by toluene dioxygenase (TDO) 
from P. putida F1, employing benzene as substrate. We aimed to enhance the 
biotechnological E. coli BW25113 platform for DHC production by identifying the 
key operational parameters positively influencing the final isolated yield. 
Thereby, we observed an unreported downstream reaction, generating catechol from 
DHC, affecting, in a negative manner, the final titer for the product. 
Expression temperature for the TDO-system showed to have the highest influence 
in terms of final isolated yield. A KEIO-collection-based screening approach 
highlighted glycerol dehydrogenase (GldA) as the main responsible enzyme for the 
undesired reaction. We transferred the TDO-system to E. coli BW25113 ΔgldA and 
applied the enhanced operational set-up on it. This enhanced platform enabled 
the production of 1.41 g L-1 DHC in isolated yield, which represents a two-fold 
increase compared with the starting working conditions. To our knowledge, this 
is the highest DHC production accomplished in recombinant E. coli at 
semi-preparative scale, providing a robust and accessible biotechnological 
platform for DHC synthesis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.09.012
PMID: 32946884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Avicenna J Med Biotechnol. 2018 Jul-Sep;10(3):141-146.

Soluble Expression of Humanized Anti-CD20 Single Chain Antibody in Escherichia 
coli by Cytoplasmic Chaperones Co-expression.

Yousefi M(1)(2), Farajnia S(2), Mokhtarzadeh A(1)(3), Akbari B(4), Ahdi 
Khosroshahi S(5), Mamipour M(1), Dariushnejad H(6), Ahmadzadeh V(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Higher Education Institute of Rab-Rashid, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Gonabad University of Medical Sciences, Gonabad, Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Medicine, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Biotechnology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(6)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: CD20 is an important cell surface receptor that is used for target 
therapy of B cell lymphoma and some related blood diseases due to vital function 
of CD20. In previous studies, a Rituximab based humanized single chain variable 
fragment (scFv) antibody showed good reactivity against B cell related cancer 
cells. But this recombinant protein produced Inclusion Bodies (IBs) in 
Escherichia coli (E. coli) cytoplasm. The aim of this study was to investigate 
the effect of coexpression with cytoplasmic chaperones on expression and 
solubility of humanized anti-CD20 scFv in E. coli.
METHODS: For this purpose, the fragment coding for anti-CD20 huscFv subcloned 
into the pET22b (+) and transformed into the E. coli BL21 (DE3) was evaluated. 
In order to inhibit the production of IBs, the effects of co-expression with 
cytoplasmic chaperones GroEL, DnaK, GroES, Tig, DnaJ and GrpE were investigated.
RESULT: Coexpression with cytoplasmic chaperones led to increased soluble 
expression of anti-CD20 recombinant protein. Among investigated chaperones, 
pKJE7 chaperone plasmid containing DnaJ, GrpE, DnaK chaperone genes had 
significant effects with an expression yield of 325 μg/ml soluble anti-CD20 
scFv.
CONCLUSION: The result of this study demonstrated remarkable effect of pKJE7 
chaperone on enhancement of soluble expression of anti-CD20 huscFv antibody in 
E. coli.

PMCID: PMC6063999
PMID: 30090206

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


134. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2018;48(6):483-489. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1466152. 
Epub 2018 Jun 29.

Improving the soluble expression of aequorin in Escherichia coli using the 
chaperone-based approach by co-expression with artemin.

Khosrowabadi E(1), Takalloo Z(1), Sajedi RH(1), Khajeh K(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences , Tarbiat 
Modares University , Tehran , Iran.

Escherichia coli is a common host that is widely used for producing recombinant 
proteins. However, it is a simple approach for production of heterologous 
proteins; the major drawbacks in using this organism include incorrect protein 
folding and formation of disordered aggregated proteins as inclusion bodies. 
Co-expression of target proteins with certain molecular chaperones is a rational 
approach for this problem. Aequorin is a calcium-activated photoprotein that is 
often prone to form insoluble inclusion bodies when overexpressed in E. coli 
cells resulting in low active yields. Therefore, in the present research, our 
main aim is to increase the soluble yield of aequorin as a model protein and 
minimize its inclusion body content in the bacterial cells. We have applied the 
chaperone-assisted protein folding strategy for enhancing the yield of properly 
folded protein with the assistance of artemin as an efficient molecular 
chaperone. The results here indicated that the content of the soluble form of 
aequorin was increased when it was co-expressed with artemin. Moreover, in the 
co-expressing cells, the bioluminescence activity was higher than the control 
sample. We presume that this method might be a potential tool to promote the 
solubility of other aggregation-prone proteins in bacterial cells.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1466152
PMID: 29958068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Microb Cell Fact. 2014 Nov 5;13:153. doi: 10.1186/s12934-014-0153-9.

Smart sustainable bottle (SSB) system for E. coli based recombinant protein 
production.

Li Z(1), Carstensen B(2), Rinas U(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Leibniz University of Hannover, Technical Chemistry - Life Science, Hannover, 
Germany. Zhaopeng.Li@iftc.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Leibniz University of Hannover, Technical Chemistry - Life Science, Hannover, 
Germany. Carstensen@iftc.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Leibniz University of Hannover, Technical Chemistry - Life Science, Hannover, 
Germany. Ursula.Rinas@helmholtz-hzi.de.
(4)Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Inhoffenstraße 7, D-38124, 
Braunschweig, Germany. Ursula.Rinas@helmholtz-hzi.de.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant proteins are usually required in laboratories interested 
in the protein but not in the production process itself. Thus, technical 
equipment which is easy to handle and straight forward protein production 
procedures are of great benefit to those laboratories. Companies selling single 
use cultivation bags and bioreactors are trying to satisfy at least part of 
these needs. However, single-use systems can contribute to major costs which 
might be acceptable when "good manufacturing practices" are required but not 
acceptable for most laboratories facing tight funding.
RESULTS: The assembly and application of a simple self-made "smart sustainable 
bottle" (SSB) system for E. coli based protein production is presented. The core 
of the SSB system is a 2-L glass bottle which is operated at constant 
temperature, air flow, and stirrer speed without measurement and control of pH 
and dissolved oxygen. Oxygen transfer capacities are in the range as in 
conventional bioreactors operated at intermediate aeration rates and by far 
exceed those found in conventional shaking flasks and disposable bioreactors. 
The SSB system was applied for the production of various recombinant proteins 
using T7-based expression systems and a defined autoinduction medium. The 
production performance regarding amount and solubility of proteins with robust 
and delicate properties was as good as in state-of-the-art stirred tank 
commercial bioreactors.
CONCLUSIONS: The SSB system represents a low cost protein production device 
applicable for easy, effective, and reproducible recombinant protein production.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-014-0153-9
PMCID: PMC4226889
PMID: 25369866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. BMC Biochem. 2011 May 5;12:17. doi: 10.1186/1471-2091-12-17.

Recombinant expression and functional analysis of proteases from Streptococcus 
pneumoniae, Bacillus anthracis, and Yersinia pestis.

Kwon K(1), Hasseman J, Latham S, Grose C, Do Y, Fleischmann RD, Pieper R, 
Peterson SN.

Author information:
(1)Pathogen Functional Genomics Resource Center, J, Craig Venter Institute, 
Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA. scottp@jcvi.org

BACKGROUND: Uncharacterized proteases naturally expressed by bacterial pathogens 
represents important topic in infectious disease research, because these enzymes 
may have critical roles in pathogenicity and cell physiology. It has been 
observed that cloning, expression and purification of proteases often fail due 
to their catalytic functions which, in turn, cause toxicity in the E. coli 
heterologous host.
RESULTS: In order to address this problem systematically, a modified pipeline of 
our high-throughput protein expression and purification platform was developed. 
This included the use of a specific E. coli strain, BL21(DE3) pLysS to tightly 
control the expression of recombinant proteins and various expression vectors 
encoding fusion proteins to enhance recombinant protein solubility. Proteases 
fused to large fusion protein domains, maltosebinding protein (MBP), SP-MBP 
which contains signal peptide at the N-terminus of MBP, disulfide oxidoreductase 
(DsbA) and Glutathione S-transferase (GST) improved expression and solubility of 
proteases. Overall, 86.1% of selected protease genes including hypothetical 
proteins were expressed and purified using a combination of five different 
expression vectors. To detect novel proteolytic activities, zymography and 
fluorescence-based assays were performed and the protease activities of more 
than 46% of purified proteases and 40% of hypothetical proteins that were 
predicted to be proteases were confirmed.
CONCLUSIONS: Multiple expression vectors, employing distinct fusion tags in a 
high throughput pipeline increased overall success rates in expression, 
solubility and purification of proteases. The combinatorial functional analysis 
of the purified proteases using fluorescence assays and zymography confirmed 
their function.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2091-12-17
PMCID: PMC3113736
PMID: 21545736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Protein J. 2012 Jan;31(1):68-74. doi: 10.1007/s10930-011-9373-6.

Enhanced expression of rabies virus surface G-protein in Escherichia coli using 
SUMO fusion.

Singh A(1), Yadav D, Rai KM, Srivastava M, Verma PC, Singh PK, Tuli R.

Author information:
(1)Plant Molecular Biology & Genetic Engineering, National Botanical Research 
Institute (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research), Rana Pratap Marg, 
Lucknow, 226001, UP, India.

Fusion systems are known to increase the expression of difficult to express 
recombinant proteins in soluble form to facilitate their purification. Rabies 
glycoprotein was also tough to express at sufficient level in soluble form in 
both E. coli and plant. The present work was aimed to over-express and purify 
this membrane protein from soluble extract of E. coli. Fusion of Small Ubiqutin 
like Modifier (SUMO) with rabies glycoprotein increased ~1.5 fold higher 
expression and ~3.0 fold solubility in comparison to non-fused in E. coli. The 
SUMO fusion also simplified the purification process. Previously engineered 
rabies glycoprotein gene in tobacco plants provides complete protection to mice, 
but the expression was very low for purification. Our finding demonstrated that 
the SUMO-fusion was useful for enhancing expression and solubility of the 
membrane protein and again proves to be a good alternative technology for 
applications in biomedical and pharmaceutical research.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-011-9373-6
PMCID: PMC7087916
PMID: 22134654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Mar;131:51-59. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.11.005. Epub 
2016 Nov 15.

High-level expression and efficient refolding of therapeutically important 
recombinant human Interleukin-3 (hIL-3) in E. coli.

Dagar VK(1), Adivitiya(1), Khasa YP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Delhi South Campus, Benito Juarez 
Road, New Delhi 110 021, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Delhi South Campus, Benito Juarez 
Road, New Delhi 110 021, India. Electronic address: yogi110@gmail.com.

Human interleukin-3 (hIL-3) is a pleiotropic cytokine that stimulates the 
differentiation and proliferation of multipotent hematopoietic cells thus making 
it a therapeutically important molecule. In this study, its poor expression 
yield was improved by addressing various upstream bottlenecks in E. coli 
heterologous system. The codon-optimized hIL-3 gene was cloned under various 
signal sequences and solubility enhancer fusion tags for its hyper-expression 
under a strong T7 promoter. The optimization of shake flask expression studies 
resulted in a hIL-3 protein concentration of 225 mg/L in the form of inclusion 
bodies (IBs). Lowering of inducer concentration and cultivation temperature did 
not improve its solubility. The hIL-3 protein was refolded from IBs and resulted 
a protein recovery yield of 53% after optimization of refolding conditions. The 
refolded protein was subsequently purified using Ni-NTA affinity chromatography 
and gave ∼95% pure protein. The conformational properties of the refolded hIL-3 
protein were studied by CD and fluorescence spectrometry where protein showed 
40% α-helix and 12% β-sheets with a fluorescence emission maxima at 344 nm. The 
molecular identity was further confirmed by MALDI-TOF/TOF and western blot 
analysis. The biological activity of refolded protein was confirmed via cell 
proliferation assay on human erythroleukemia TF-1 cells where commercial hIL-3 
was taken as a standard control.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.11.005
PMID: 27864159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Biomol NMR. 2010 Nov;48(3):147-55. doi: 10.1007/s10858-010-9445-5. Epub 2010 
Sep 16.

Efficient protein production method for NMR using soluble protein tags with cold 
shock expression vector.

Hayashi K(1), Kojima C.

Author information:
(1)Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Takayama, Ikoma, Japan.

The E. coli protein expression system is one of the most useful methods employed 
for NMR sample preparation. However, the production of some recombinant proteins 
in E. coli is often hampered by difficulties such as low expression level and 
low solubility. To address these problems, a modified cold-shock expression 
system containing a glutathione S-transferase (GST) tag, the pCold-GST system, 
was investigated. The pCold-GST system successfully expressed 9 out of 10 
proteins that otherwise could not be expressed using a conventional E. coli 
expression system. Here, we applied the pCold-GST system to 84 proteins and 78 
proteins were successfully expressed in the soluble fraction. Three other 
cold-shock expression systems containing a maltose binding protein tag 
(pCold-MBP), protein G B1 domain tag (pCold-GB1) or thioredoxin tag (pCold-Trx) 
were also developed to improve the yield. Additionally, we show that a 
C-terminal proline tag, which is invisible in ¹H-¹⁵N HSQC spectra, inhibits 
protein degradation and increases the final yield of unstable proteins. The 
purified proteins were amenable to NMR analyses. These data suggest that pCold 
expression systems combined with soluble protein tags can be utilized to improve 
the expression and purification of various proteins for NMR analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10858-010-9445-5
PMID: 20844927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2016 Jul 29;9:159. doi: 10.1186/s13068-016-0563-5. 
eCollection 2016.

Cell-free synthesis of functional phospholipase A1 from Serratia sp.

Lim HJ(1), Park YJ(2), Jang YJ(2), Choi JE(3), Oh JY(3), Park JH(3), Song JK(3), 
Kim DM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, Chungnam National 
University, Daejeon, 305-764 Republic of Korea ; Research Center for Bio-based 
Chemistry, Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology, Daejeon, 305-600 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, Chungnam National 
University, Daejeon, 305-764 Republic of Korea.
(3)Research Center for Bio-based Chemistry, Korea Research Institute of Chemical 
Technology, Daejeon, 305-600 Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Phospholipase A1 is an enzyme that hydrolyzes phospholipids at the 
sn-1 position. It has potential applications across diverse fields including 
food, pharmaceutical, and biofuel industries. Although there has been increasing 
interest in the use of phospholipase A1 for degumming of plant oils during 
biodiesel production, production of recombinant phospholipase A1 has been 
hampered by low efficiency of gene expression and its toxicity to the host cell.
RESULTS: While expression of phospholipase A1 in Escherichia coli resulted in 
extremely low productivity associated with inhibition of transformed cell 
growth, drastically higher production of functional phospholipase A1 was 
achieved in a cell-free protein synthesis system where enzyme expression is 
decoupled from cell physiology. Compared with expression in E. coli, cell-free 
synthesis resulted in an over 1000-fold higher titer of functional phospholipase 
A1. Cell-free produced phospholipase A1 was also used for successfully degumming 
crude plant oil.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate successful production of Serratia sp. phospholipase 
A1 in a cell-free protein synthesis system. Including the phospholipase A1 
investigated in this study, many industrial enzymes can interfere with the 
regular physiology of cells, making cellular production of them problematic. 
With the experimental results presented herewith, we believe that cell-free 
protein synthesis will provide a viable option for rapid production of important 
industrial biocatalysts.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-016-0563-5
PMCID: PMC4966862
PMID: 27478501


141. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Nov;62(1):116-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.06.015. Epub 
2008 Jul 10.

Soluble expression of archaeal proteins in Escherichia coli by using 
fusion-partners.

Kim S(1), Lee SB.

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Pohang University of Science 
and Technology, San 31, Hyoja-dong, Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea.

Expression of archaeal proteins in soluble form is of importance because 
archaeal proteins are usually produced as insoluble inclusion bodies in 
Escherichia coli. In this study, we investigated the use of soluble fusion tags 
to enhance the solubility of two archaeal proteins, d-gluconate dehydratase 
(GNAD) and 2-keto-3-deoxy-D-gluconate kinase (KDGK), key enzymes in the 
glycolytic pathway of the thermoacidophilic archaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus. 
These two proteins were produced as inclusion bodies in E. coli when 
polyhistidine was used as a fusion tag. To reduce inclusion body formation in E. 
coli, GNAD and KDGK were fused with three partners, thioredoxin (Trx), 
glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and N-utilization substance A (NusA). With the 
use of fusion-partners, the solubility of the archaeal proteins was remarkably 
enhanced, and the soluble fraction of the recombinant proteins was increased in 
this order: Trx>GST>NusA. Furthermore, In the case of recombinant KDGKs, the 
enzyme activity of the Trx-fused proteins was 200-fold higher than that of the 
polyhistidine-fusion protein. The strategy presented in this work may contribute 
to the production of other valuable proteins from hyperthermophilic archaea in 
E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.06.015
PMID: 18657619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Aug;42(2):268-77. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.002.

Improving expression and solubility of rice proteins produced as fusion proteins 
in Escherichia coli.

Tsunoda Y(1), Sakai N, Kikuchi K, Katoh S, Akagi K, Miura-Ohnuma J, Tashiro Y, 
Murata K, Shibuya N, Katoh E.

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Department, National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8602, Japan.

For proteins of higher eukaryotes, such as plants, which have large genomes, 
recombinant protein expression and purification are often difficult. Expression 
levels tend to be low and the expressed proteins tend to misfold and aggregate. 
We tested seven different expression vectors in Escherichia coli for rapid 
subcloning of rice genes and for protein expression and solubility levels. Each 
expressed gene product has an N-terminal fusion protein and/or tag, and an 
engineered protease site upstream of the mature rice protein. Several different 
fusion proteins/tags and protease sites were tested. We found that the fusion 
proteins and the protease sites have significant and varying effects on 
expression and solubility levels. The expression vector with the most favorable 
characteristics is pDEST-trx. The vector, which is a modified version of the 
commercially available expression vector, pET-32a, contains an N-terminal 
thioredoxin fusion protein and a hexahistidine tag, and is adapted to the 
Gateway expression system. However, addition of an engineered protease site 
could drastically change the expression and solubility properties. We selected 
135 genes corresponding to potentially interesting rice proteins, transferred 
the genes from cDNAs to expression vectors, and engineered in suitable protease 
sites N-terminal to the mature proteins. Of 135 genes, 131 (97.0%) could be 
expressed and 72 (53.3%) were soluble when the fusion proteins/tags were 
present. Thirty-eight mature-length rice proteins and domains (28.1%) are 
suitable for NMR solution structure studies and/or X-ray crystallography. Our 
expression systems are useful for the production of soluble plant proteins in E. 
coli to be used for structural genomics studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.002
PMID: 15914031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. BMC Bioinformatics. 2010 Jan 18;11 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S21. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2105-11-S1-S21.

Learning to predict expression efficacy of vectors in recombinant protein 
production.

Chan WC(1), Liang PH, Shih YP, Yang UC, Lin WC, Hsu CN.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Informatics, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. wcchan@iis.sinica.edu.tw

BACKGROUND: Recombinant protein production is a useful biotechnology to produce 
a large quantity of highly soluble proteins. Currently, the most widely used 
production system is to fuse a target protein into different vectors in 
Escherichia coli (E. coli). However, the production efficacy of different 
vectors varies for different target proteins. Trial-and-error is still the 
common practice to find out the efficacy of a vector for a given target protein. 
Previous studies are limited in that they assumed that proteins would be 
over-expressed and focused only on the solubility of expressed proteins. In 
fact, many pairings of vectors and proteins result in no expression.
RESULTS: In this study, we applied machine learning to train prediction models 
to predict whether a pairing of vector-protein will express or not express in E. 
coli. For expressed cases, the models further predict whether the expressed 
proteins would be soluble. We collected a set of real cases from the clients of 
our recombinant protein production core facility, where six different vectors 
were designed and studied. This set of cases is used in both training and 
evaluation of our models. We evaluate three different models based on the 
support vector machines (SVM) and their ensembles. Unlike many previous works, 
these models consider the sequence of the target protein as well as the sequence 
of the whole fusion vector as the features. We show that a model that classifies 
a case into one of the three classes (no expression, inclusion body and soluble) 
outperforms a model that considers the nested structure of the three classes, 
while a model that can take advantage of the hierarchical structure of the three 
classes performs slight worse but comparably to the best model. Meanwhile, 
compared to previous works, we show that the prediction accuracy of our best 
method still performs the best. Lastly, we briefly present two methods to use 
the trained model in the design of the recombinant protein production systems to 
improve the chance of high soluble protein production.
CONCLUSION: In this paper, we show that a machine learning approach to the 
prediction of the efficacy of a vector for a target protein in a recombinant 
protein production system is promising and may compliment traditional 
knowledge-driven study of the efficacy. We will release our program to share 
with other labs in the public domain when this paper is published.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-11-S1-S21
PMCID: PMC3009492
PMID: 20122193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2015 Jan-Feb;62(1):79-86. doi: 10.1002/bab.1248. Epub 
2014 Jul 17.

High-level soluble expression of Serratia marcescens H30 lipase in Escherichia 
coli.

Su E(1), Xu J, Wu X.

Author information:
(1)Enzyme and Fermentation Technology Laboratory, College of Light Industry 
Science and Engineering, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, People's Republic 
of China.

Serratia marcescens lipase (SmL) is an important biocatalyst used to 
enantioselectively hydrolyze (±)-trans-3-(4-methoxyphynyl) glycidic acid methyl 
ester. However, the economically justified level recombinant soluble expression 
of SmL in Escherichia coli has not been established. Thus, fusion genes of 
lipase from S. marcescens H30 with different fusion tags were constructed and 
expressed in E. coli. The effects of fusion tags were revealed. A significant 
increase in recombinant lipase solubility showed that E. coli BL21 
(DE3)/pET32a-SmL was a suitable choice for SmL production. To optimize the 
performance of recombinant SmL production, changes in culture medium 
compositions and induction conditions were systematically tested. Finally, the 
recombinant SmL activity and productivity reached approximately 23,000 U/L and 
1,278 U/L/H in shake flasks, respectively. This value is the highest SmL 
activity attained by heterogeneous recombinant expression in E. coli. Lipase 
activity and productivity reached 19,650 U/L and 1,228 U/L/H, respectively, by 
scaling up SmL production in a 7.0 L fermenter. The existence of the Trx tag did 
not influence the chiral selectivity of recombinant SmL. These findings indicate 
a possibility for soluble and economical SmL expression in E. coli to meet 
industrial needs.

© 2014 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.1248
PMID: 24852607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Biol Eng. 2012 Mar 30;6(1):2. doi: 10.1186/1754-1611-6-2.

A synthetic biology approach to self-regulatory recombinant protein production 
in Escherichia coli.

Dragosits M(1), Nicklas D, Tagkopoulos I.

Author information:
(1)UC Davis Genome Center, University of California, Davis, USA. 
iliast@ucdavis.edu.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant protein production is a process of great industrial 
interest, with products that range from pharmaceuticals to biofuels. Since high 
level production of recombinant protein imposes significant stress in the host 
organism, several methods have been developed over the years to optimize protein 
production. So far, these trial-and-error techniques have proved laborious and 
sensitive to process parameters, while there has been no attempt to address the 
problem by applying Synthetic Biology principles and methods, such as 
integration of standardized parts in novel synthetic circuits.
RESULTS: We present a novel self-regulatory protein production system that 
couples the control of recombinant protein production with a stress-induced, 
negative feedback mechanism. The synthetic circuit allows the down-regulation of 
recombinant protein expression through a stress-induced promoter. We used E. 
coli as the host organism, since it is widely used in recombinant processes. Our 
results show that the introduction of the self-regulatory circuit increases the 
soluble/insoluble ratio of recombinant protein at the expense of total protein 
yield. To further elucidate the dynamics of the system, we developed a 
computational model that is in agreement with the observed experimental data, 
and provides insight on the interplay between protein solubility and yield.
CONCLUSION: Our work introduces the idea of a self-regulatory circuit for 
recombinant protein products, and paves the way for processes with reduced 
external control or monitoring needs. It demonstrates that the library of 
standard biological parts serves as a valuable resource for initial synthetic 
blocks that needs to be further refined to be successfully applied in practical 
problems of biotechnological significance. Finally, the development of a 
predictive model in conjunction with experimental validation facilitates a 
better understanding of the underlying dynamics and can be used as a guide to 
experimental design.

DOI: 10.1186/1754-1611-6-2
PMCID: PMC3384244
PMID: 22463687


146. BMC Biotechnol. 2014 Jan 14;14:3. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-14-3.

Solubility of recombinant Src homology 2 domains expressed in E. coli can be 
predicted by TANGO.

Andersen TC, Lindsjø K, Hem CD, Koll L, Kristiansen PE, Skjeldal L, Andreotti 
AH, Spurkland A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Institute of Basal Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Oslo, Norway. anne.spurkland@medisin.uio.no.

BACKGROUND: Signalling proteins often contain several well defined and conserved 
protein domains. Structural analyses of such domains by nuclear magnetic 
spectroscopy or X-ray crystallography may greatly inform the function of 
proteins. A limiting step is often the production of sufficient amounts of the 
recombinant protein. However, there is no particular way to predict whether a 
protein will be soluble when expressed in E.coli. Here we report our experience 
with expression of a Src homology 2 (SH2) domain.
RESULTS: The SH2 domain of the SH2D2A protein (or T cell specific adapter 
protein, TSAd) forms insoluble aggregates when expressed as various GST-fusion 
proteins in Escherichia coli (E. coli). Alteration of the flanking sequences, or 
growth temperature influenced expression and solubility of TSAd-SH2, however 
overall yield of soluble protein remained low. The algorithm TANGO, which 
predicts amyloid fibril formation in eukaryotic cells, identified a hydrophobic 
sequence within the TSAd-SH2 domain with high propensity for beta-aggregation. 
Mutation to the corresponding amino acids of the related HSH2- (or ALX) SH2 
domain increased the yield of soluble TSAd-SH2 domains. High beta-aggregation 
values predicted by TANGO correlated with low solubility of recombinant SH2 
domains as reported in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS: Solubility of recombinant proteins expressed in E.coli can be 
predicted by TANGO, an algorithm developed to determine the aggregation 
propensity of peptides. Targeted mutations representing corresponding amino 
acids in similar protein domains may increase solubility of recombinant 
proteins.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-14-3
PMCID: PMC3922782
PMID: 24423197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Jul;41(7):1039-50. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-014-1451-2. Epub 2014 May 1.

Production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid from glycerol by acid tolerant Escherichia 
coli.

Sankaranarayanan M(1), Ashok S, Park S.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Pusan National University, 
San 30, Jangjeon-dong, Geumjeong-gu, Busan, 609-735, South Korea.

The biological production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) has attracted 
significant attention because of its industrial importance. The low titer, yield 
and productivity, all of which are related directly or indirectly to the 
toxicity of 3-HP, have limited the commercial production of 3-HP. The aim of 
this study was to identify and select a 3-HP tolerant Escherichia coli strain 
among nine strains reported to produce various organic acids efficiently at high 
titer. When transformed with heterologous glycerol dehydratase, reactivase and 
aldehyde dehydrogenase, all nine E. coli strains produced 3-HP from glycerol but 
the level of 3-HP production, protein expression and activities of the important 
enzymes differed significantly according to the strain. Two E. coli strains, 
W3110 and W, showed higher levels of growth than the others in the presence of 
25 g/L 3-HP. In the glycerol fed-batch bioreactor experiments, the recombinant 
E. coli W produced a high level of 3-HP at 460 ± 10 mM (41.5 ± 1.1 g/L) in 48 h 
with a yield of 31 % and a productivity of 0.86 ± 0.05 g/L h. In contrast, the 
recombinant E. coli W3110 produced only 180 ± 8.5 mM 3-HP (15.3 ± 0.8 g/L) in 
48 h with a yield and productivity of 26 % and 0.36 ± 0.02 g/L h, respectively. 
This shows that the tolerance to and the production of 3-HP differ significantly 
among the well-known, similar strains of E. coli. The titer and productivity 
obtained with E. coli W were the highest reported thus far for the biological 
production of 3-HP from glycerol by E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-014-1451-2
PMID: 24788379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Curr Protoc Protein Sci. 2017 Nov 1;90:5.27.1-5.27.20. doi: 10.1002/cpps.39.

Screening Fusion Tags for Improved Recombinant Protein Expression in E. coli 
with the Expresso® Solubility and Expression Screening System.

Steinmetz EJ(1), Auldridge ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Lucigen Corporation, Middleton, Wisconsin.

The simplicity, speed, and low cost of bacterial culture make E. coli the system 
of choice for most initial trials of recombinant protein expression. However, 
many heterologous proteins are either poorly expressed in bacteria, or are 
produced as incorrectly folded, insoluble aggregates that lack the activity of 
the native protein. In many cases, fusion to a partner protein can allow for 
improved expression and/or solubility of a difficult target protein. Although 
several different fusion partners have gained favor, none are universally 
effective, and identifying the one that best improves soluble expression of a 
given target protein is an empirical process. This unit presents a strategy for 
parallel screening of fusion partners for enhanced expression or solubility. The 
Expresso® Solubility and Expression Screening System includes a panel of seven 
distinct fusion partners and utilizes an extremely simple cloning strategy to 
enable rapid screening and identification of the most effective fusion partner. 
© 2017 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cpps.39
PMCID: PMC5791521
PMID: 29091274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Mol Biotechnol. 2011 Feb;47(2):130-43. doi: 10.1007/s12033-010-9320-3.

Enhancing functional expression of Heterologous Burkholderia lipase in 
Escherichia coli.

Narayanan N(1), Khan M, Chou CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Waterloo, 200 University 
Avenue West, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada.

Functional expression of lipase from Burkholderia sp. C20 (Lip) in various 
cellular compartments of Escherichia coli was explored. The poor expression in 
the cytoplasm of E. coli was improved by several strategies, including 
coexpression of the cytoplasmic chaperone GroEL/ES, using a mutant E. coli host 
strain with an oxidative cytoplasm, and protein fusion technology. Fusing Lip 
with the N-terminal peptide tags of T7PK, DsbA, and DsbC was effective in 
enhancing the solubility and biological activity. Non-fused Lip or Lip fusions 
heterologously expressed in the periplasm of E. coli formed insoluble aggregates 
with a minimum activity. Biologically active and intact Lip was obtained upon 
the secretion into the extracellular medium using the native signal peptide and 
the expression performance was further improved by coexpression of the 
periplasmic chaperon Skp. The extracellular expression was even more effective 
when Lip was secreted as a Lip-HlyA fusion via the α-hemolysin transporter. 
Finally, Lip could be functionally displayed on the E. coli cell surface when 
fused with the carrier EstA.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-010-9320-3
PMID: 20730511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Braz J Infect Dis. 2014 May-Jun;18(3):308-14. doi: 10.1016/j.bjid.2013.07.012. 
Epub 2014 Jan 3.

A CssA, CssB and LTB chimeric protein induces protection against Enterotoxigenic 
Escherichia coli.

Bagheri S(1), Mousavi Gargari SL(2), Rasooli I(1), Nazarian S(3), Alerasol M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
slmousavi@shahed.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Biology, Imam Hussein University, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), a major cause of diarrhea 
in children under 5, is an important agent for traveler's diarrhea. Heat-labile 
enterotoxin (LT) and colonization factors (CFs) are two main virulence 
mechanisms in ETEC. CS6 is one of the most prevalent CFs consisting of two 
structural subunits viz., CssA, CssB, necessary for attachment to the intestinal 
cells.
METHODS: In the present research, a chimeric trivalent protein composed of CssB, 
CssA and LTB was constructed. The chimeric gene was synthesized with codon bias 
of E. coli for enhanced expression of the protein. Recombinant proteins were 
expressed and purified. Mice were immunized with the recombinant protein. The 
antibody titer and specificity of the immune sera were analyzed by ELISA and 
Western blotting. Efficiency of the immune sera against ETEC was evaluated.
RESULTS: Antibody induction was followed by immunization of mice with the 
chimeric protein. Pretreatment of the ETEC cells with immunized animal antisera 
remarkably decreased their adhesion to Caco-2 cells.
DISCUSSION: The results indicate efficacy of the recombinant chimeric protein as 
an effective immunogen, which induces strong humoral response as well as 
protection against ETEC adherence and toxicity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjid.2013.07.012
PMID: 24389278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Proteomics. 2013 May;13(9):1444-56. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201200175.

ESPRESSO: a system for estimating protein expression and solubility in protein 
expression systems.

Hirose S(1), Noguchi T.

Author information:
(1)Computational Biology Research Center (CBRC), National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tokyo, Japan. 
hirose-shuichi@aist.go.jp

Recombinant protein technology is essential for conducting protein science and 
using proteins as materials in pharmaceutical or industrial applications. 
Although obtaining soluble proteins is still a major experimental obstacle, 
knowledge about protein expression/solubility under standard conditions may 
increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of proteomics studies. In this 
study, we present a computational approach to estimate the probability of 
protein expression and solubility for two different protein expression systems: 
in vivo Escherichia coli and wheat germ cell-free, from only the sequence 
information. It implements two kinds of methods: a sequence/predicted structural 
property-based method that uses both the sequence and predicted structural 
features, and a sequence pattern-based method that utilizes the occurrence 
frequencies of sequence patterns. In the benchmark test, the proposed methods 
obtained F-scores of around 70%, and outperformed publicly available servers. 
Applying the proposed methods to genomic data revealed that proteins associated 
with translation or transcription have a strong tendency to be expressed as 
soluble proteins by the in vivo E. coli expression system. The sequence 
pattern-based method also has the potential to indicate a candidate region for 
modification, to increase protein solubility. All methods are available for free 
at the ESPRESSO server (http://mbs.cbrc.jp/ESPRESSO).

© 2013 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.201200175
PMID: 23436767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Eng Life Sci. 2020 May 25;20(8):338-349. doi: 10.1002/elsc.201900158. 
eCollection 2020 Aug.

Enhancement of extracellular bispecific anti-MUC1 nanobody expression in E. coli 
BL21 (DE3) by optimization of temperature and carbon sources through an 
autoinduction condition.

Rezaei L(1), Shojaosadati SA(1), Farahmand L(2), Moradi-Kalbolandi S(2).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Group Faculty of Chemical Engineering Tarbiat Modares 
University Tehran Iran.
(2)Recombinant Proteins Department Breast Cancer Research Center Motamed Cancer 
Institute Tehran Iran.

Escherichia coli is one of the most suitable hosts for production of antibodies 
and antibody fragments. Antibody fragment secretion to the culture medium 
improves product purity in cell culture and diminishes downstream costs. In this 
study, E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) harboring gene encoding bispecific anti-MUC1 
nanobody was selected, and the autoinduction methodology for expression of 
bispecific anti-MUC1 nanobody was investigated. Due to the replacement of IPTG 
by lactose as inducer, less impurity and toxicity in the final product were 
observed. To increase both intracellular and extracellular nanobody production, 
initially, the experiments were performed for the key factors including 
temperature and duration of protein expression. The highest amount of nanobody 
was produced after 21 h at 33°C. The effect of different carbon sources, 
glycerol, glucose, lactose, and glycine as a medium additive at optimum 
temperature and time were also assessed by using response surface methodology. 
The optimized concentrations of carbon sources were obtained as 0.75% (w/v), 
0.03% (w/v), 0.1% (w/v), and 0.75% (w/v) for glycerol, glucose, lactose, and 
glycine, respectively. Finally, the production of nanobody in 2 L fermenter 
under the optimized autoinduction conditions was evaluated. The results show 
that the total titer of 87.66 µg/mL anti-MUC1 nanobody, which is approximately 
seven times more than the total titer of nanobody produced in LB culture medium, 
is 12.23 µg/L .

© 2020 The Authors. Engineering in Life Sciences published by WILEY‐VCH Verlag 
GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elsc.201900158
PMCID: PMC7401236
PMID: 32774206

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


153. Turk J Biol. 2018 Feb 15;42(1):23-32. doi: 10.3906/biy-1708-12. eCollection 
2018.

Cloning and soluble expression of mature α-luffin from Luffa cylindrica in E. 
coli using SUMO fusion protein.

Namvar S(1)(2), Barkhordari F(1), Raigani M(1), Jahandar H(3)(2), Nematollahi 
L(1), Davami F(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center; Pasteur Institute of Iran , Tehran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch, 
Islamic Azad University , Tehran , Iran.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Advanced Sciences &Technology, 
Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch, Islamic Azad University , Tehran , Iran.

α-Lufin, found in Luaf cylindrica seeds, is a type I ribosome inactivating 
proteins. Cytotoxic effects make it an appropriate candidate for the 
construction of immunotoxins and conjugates. Because of limited natural 
resources, recombinant technology is the best approach to achieve large-scale 
production of plant-based proteins. In the present study, α-lufin protein was 
expressed in E. coli and the effects of different temperature conditions, SUMO 
fusion tag, and cultivation strategies on total expression and solubility were 
investigated. Protein expression was evaluated at different intervals (0, 4, 6, 
8, 24 h) postinduction. Our results showed that EnBase had higher eficiency than 
LB, and maximum solubility and total protein expression were achieved 24 h after 
induction at 30 °C and 25 °C, respectively. It was shown that SUMO tag is an 
effective strategy to improve protein solubility.

DOI: 10.3906/biy-1708-12
PMCID: PMC6353257
PMID: 30814867


154. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Jan;100(2):757-67. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-015-7026-y. Epub 2015 Oct 17.

Improving alkane synthesis in Escherichia coli via metabolic engineering.

Song X(1)(2), Yu H(1), Zhu K(3).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China. 
zhuk@im.ac.cn.

Concerns about energy security and global petroleum supply have made the 
production of renewable biofuels an industrial imperative. The ideal biofuels 
are n-alkanes in that they are chemically and structurally identical to the 
fossil fuels and can "drop in" to the transportation infrastructure. In this 
work, an Escherichia coli strain that produces n-alkanes was constructed by 
heterologous expression of acyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) reductase (AAR) and 
aldehyde deformylating oxygenase (ADO) from Synechococcus elongatus PCC7942. The 
accumulation of alkanes ranged from 3.1 to 24.0 mg/L using different expressing 
strategies. Deletion of yqhD, an inherent aldehyde reductase in E. coli, or 
overexpression of fadR, an activator for fatty acid biosynthesis, exhibited a 
nearly twofold increase in alkane titers, respectively. Combining yqhD deletion 
and fadR overexpression resulted in a production titer of 255.6 mg/L in E. coli, 
and heptadecene was the most abundant product.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-015-7026-y
PMID: 26476644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2020 Sep;36(9):826-832.

[Prokaryotic expression of mouse Stra8 and preparation and identification of 
rabbit anti-mouse Stra8 polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Cai Y(1), Ma S(1), Dong Y(1), Zhang W(1), Xia M(1), Niu C(1), Zheng Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, School of Medicine, Yangzhou 
University, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Experimental & Translational Non-coding 
RNA Research, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, School of Medicine, Yangzhou 
University, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Experimental & Translational Non-coding 
RNA Research, Yangzhou 225009, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
yzzkl@163.com.

Objective To prokaryotically express mouse stimulated by retinoic acid gene 8 
(Stra8) and prepare rabbit anti-mouse Stra8 polyclonal antibody. Methods The 
recombinant plasmid pET28a-Stra8 was constructed by cloning technology and 
identified by double enzyme digestion and sequencing, and then transformed into 
E. coli BL21 (DE3). The expression of Stra8 recombinant protein was induced by 
IPTG. The prokaryotic protein was purified by His-TAG affinity chromatograph and 
then used to immune New Zealand white rabbits to obtain Stra8 polyclonal 
antibody. ELISA, Western blot and immunofluorescence assays were used to 
determine the antibody titer, validity and specificity, respectively. Results 
The recombinant plasmid pET28a-Stra8 was constructed successfully as double 
enzyme digestion and sequencing showed, and the prokaryotic protein was 
expressed and purified effectively. The titer of the polyclonal antibody reached 
1:106. Western blotting showed that the polyclonal antibody could specifically 
recognize native Stra8 protein in the testis. Immunofluorescence assay revealed 
that the polyclonal antibody had good reactivity, and could recognize Stra8 
protein in mouse testis. Conclusion Stra8 prokaryotic protein can be effectively 
induced in E. coli and specific rabbit anti-Stra8 polyclonal antibody has been 
prepared.

PMID: 32967766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2019 Oct;42(10):1611-1624. doi: 
10.1007/s00449-019-02158-x. Epub 2019 Jul 2.

The impact of technical failures during cultivation of an inclusion body 
process.

Pekarsky A(1), Konopek V(1), Spadiut O(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Research 
Area Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität Wien, Gumpendorfer Strasse 
1a, 1060, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Research 
Area Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität Wien, Gumpendorfer Strasse 
1a, 1060, Vienna, Austria. oliver.spadiut@tuwien.ac.at.

In biotechnological processes, technical failures in the upstream process often 
lead to batch loss. It is of great interest to investigate the empirical impact 
of technical failures to understand and mitigate their impact accurately and 
reduce economic damage. We investigated the impact in the upstream and 
downstream of a recombinant antibody fragment inclusion body production process 
chain to provide integrated empirical data and knowledge. First, we provided a 
reproducible process chain that yielded high inclusion body content, high 
specific product titer, and a refolding yield of 30%. The inclusion body 
downstream proved to be of high reproducibility. Through the intended 
introduction of technical failures, we were not only able to shed more light on 
the empirical responses in the upstream and downstream, but also on 
process-boosting parameters that would have been neglected. Herein, a short 
increase in temperature during the cultivation clearly increased the refolding 
yield.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-019-02158-x
PMCID: PMC6751153
PMID: 31267174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


157. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2019;120(2):106-112. doi: 10.4149/BLL_2019_017.

Generation of a fluorescent oncoprotein in soluble form and its delivery into 
mammalian cells.

Motevalli F, Khodaei A, Anvari M, Bolhassani A.

BACKGROUND: Protein fusion technology was widely used to improve expression, 
purification and solubility of the recombinant proteins expressed in E. coli for 
in vitro/in vivo delivery.
METHODS: We developed a method for successful expression of soluble +36GFP-A2-E7 
protein in E. coli and its effective delivery into mammalian cells. At first, 
the plasmid harboring +36GFP-A2-E7 was transformed into E. coli Rosetta 
competent cells. Then, the recombinant protein fused to histidine tag was 
expressed and purified using affinity chromatography. Different conditions such 
as inducer dose, time and temperature of induction, pH and urea concentration 
were evaluated. Finally, the delivery of the recombinant protein was detected in 
HEK-293T cells using fluorescent microscopy and flow cytometry.
RESULTS: Our data showed that the expressed protein formed inclusion bodies at 
37 °C and 3 h post-induction. The soluble protein was generated using 0.5 mM 
IPTG and growth at 16 °C for 20 h, and purified by low concentrations of urea 
and 200 mM imidazole. The soluble fraction of +36GFP-A2-E7 protein could 
significantly represent higher fluorescent property and stronger delivery into 
mammalian cells compared to the insoluble form.
CONCLUSION: Generally, soluble form of fusion protein retained its biological 
activity and could directly penetrate into the cells without the fusion tags 
(Tab. 1, Fig. 7, Ref. 23).

DOI: 10.4149/BLL_2019_017
PMID: 30793613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Front Microbiol. 2018 Feb 7;9:139. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00139. eCollection 
2018.

Metabolic Engineering for Enhanced Medium Chain Omega Hydroxy Fatty Acid 
Production in Escherichia coli.

Xiao K(1), Yue XH(1), Chen WC(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhou XR(5), Wang L(1), Xu L(1), Huang 
FH(1)(2)(3)(4), Wan X(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Oil Crops Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Wuhan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetic Improvement of Oil Crops, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Wuhan, China.
(3)Oil Crops and Lipids Process Technology National and Local Joint Engineering 
Laboratory, Wuhan, China.
(4)Hubei Key Laboratory of Lipid Chemistry and Nutrition, Wuhan, China.
(5)Agriculture and Food, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation (CSIRO), Canberra, ACT, Australia.

Medium chain hydroxy fatty acids (HFAs) at ω-1, 2, or 3 positions (ω-1/2/3) are 
rare in nature but are attractive due to their potential applications in 
industry. They can be metabolically engineered in Escherichia coli, however, the 
current yield is low. In this study, metabolic engineering with P450BM3 
monooxygenase was applied to regulate both the chain length and sub-terminal 
position of HFA products in E. coli, leading to increased yield. Five acyl-acyl 
carrier protein thioesterases from plants and bacteria were first evaluated for 
regulating the chain length of fatty acids. Co-expression of the selected 
thioesterase gene CcFatB1 with a fatty acid metabolism regulator fadR and 
monooxygenase P450BM3 boosted the production of HFAs especially ω-3-OH-C14:1, in 
both the wild type and fadD deficient strain. Supplementing renewable glycerol 
to reduce the usage of glucose as a carbon source further increased the HFAs 
production to 144 mg/L, representing the highest titer of such HFAs obtained in 
E. coli under the comparable conditions. This study illustrated an improved 
metabolic strategy for medium chain ω-1/2/3 HFAs production in E. coli. In 
addition, the produced HFAs were mostly secreted into culture media, which eased 
its recovery.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00139
PMCID: PMC5808347
PMID: 29467747


159. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Jul 31;14(3):8685-93. doi: 10.4238/2015.July.31.17.

Expression and antibody generation of the cancer-testis antigen, BIOT2-S.

Wang JY(1), Cao M(2), Guo MR(1), Li S(1), Yang XF(1), Wang M(1), Fang J(2), Zhao 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Ecological Environments of The 
Chinese Education Ministry, College of Life Science, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of the Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences, Sichuan Provincial 
People's Hospital, Chengdu, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Ecological Environments of The 
Chinese Education Ministry, College of Life Science, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, China zj804@163.com.

Biot2-S is a mouse cancer-testis antigen gene that was identified using the 
cross-reactive serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression libraries 
(SEREX) technique in the State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China 
Hospital, Sichuan University. To express BIOT2-S and generate its antibody for 
further investigation, the Biot2-S prokaryotic recombinant expression vector 
Biot2-S/pGEX6P-1 was constructed with Escherichia coli DH5α as a cloning vector, 
and BIOT2-S was expressed in E. coli Rosetta (DE3). The recombinant BIOT2-S was 
expressed in the form of an inclusion body and the targeted recombinant BIOT2-S 
was produced at the level of approximately 25% total bacterial proteins after 
being induced with optimum conditions (0.2 mM 
isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside for 6 h at 37°C). The target protein was 
purified by glutathione S-transferase (GST)-trap FF affinity chromatography and 
detected by western blot. The purified recombinant protein was further confirmed 
by electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry after 
removal of the GST-tags. Then the purified BIOT2-S was used to immunize adult 
rabbits to generate its antibody. The antibody was purified and its specificity 
determined. The titer of the antibody was shown to reach 10(4) and the antibody 
was demonstrated to be able recognize the corresponding protein in the testes of 
mouse and chicken; the tumor cell lines CT-26 and S180 also reacted with the 
antibody. This study provides a valuable foundation for further research on the 
cancer-testis antigen BIOT2-S.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.July.31.17
PMID: 26345800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Jul;111:36-41. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.03.009. Epub 
2015 Mar 21.

High-level soluble expression of a bacterial N-acyl-d-glucosamine 2-epimerase in 
recombinant Escherichia coli.

Klermund L(1), Riederer A(2), Groher A(3), Castiglione K(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität München, 
Boltzmannstr. 15, 85748 Garching, Germany. Electronic address: 
l.klermund@lrz.tum.de.
(2)Institute of Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität München, 
Boltzmannstr. 15, 85748 Garching, Germany. Electronic address: 
amelie.riederer@tum.de.
(3)Institute of Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität München, 
Boltzmannstr. 15, 85748 Garching, Germany. Electronic address: 
a.groher@lrz.tum.de.
(4)Institute of Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität München, 
Boltzmannstr. 15, 85748 Garching, Germany. Electronic address: 
k.castiglione@lrz.tum.de.

N-Acyl-d-glucosamine 2-epimerase (AGE) is an important enzyme for the 
biocatalytic synthesis of N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac). Due to the wide 
range of biological applications of Neu5Ac and its derivatives, there has been 
great interest in its large-scale synthesis. Thus, suitable strategies for 
achieving high-level production of soluble AGE are needed. Several AGEs from 
various organisms have been recombinantly expressed in Escherichia coli. 
However, the soluble expression level was consistently low with an excessive 
formation of inclusion bodies. In this study, the effects of different 
solubility-enhancement tags, expression temperatures, chaperones and host 
strains on the soluble expression of the AGE from the freshwater cyanobacterium 
Anabaena variabilis ATCC 29413 (AvaAGE) were examined. The optimum combination 
of tag, expression temperature, co-expression of chaperones and host strain 
(His6-tag, 37°C, GroEL/GroES, E. coli BL21(DE3)) led to a 264-fold improvement 
of the volumetric epimerase activity, a measure of the soluble expression, 
compared to the starting conditions (His6-maltose-binding protein-tag, 20°C, 
without chaperones, E. coli BL21(DE3)). A maximum yield of 22.5mg isolated 
AvaAGE per liter shake flask culture was obtained.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.03.009
PMID: 25804337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Bioresour Technol. 2018 Feb;250:406-412. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2017.11.062. 
Epub 2017 Nov 23.

d-1,2,4-Butanetriol production from renewable biomass with optimization of 
synthetic pathway in engineered Escherichia coli.

Wang X(1), Xu N(1), Hu S(1), Yang J(2), Gao Q(1), Xu S(1), Chen K(3), Ouyang 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing 
211816, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Xian Modern Chemistry Research Institute, Xian 710065, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing 
211816, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: kqchen@njtech.edu.cn.

Bio-based production of d-1,2,4-butanetriol (BT) from renewable substrates is 
increasingly attracting attention. Here, the BT biosynthetic pathway was 
constructed and optimized in Escherichia coli to produce BT from pure d-xylose 
or corncob hydrolysates. First, E. coli BL21(DE3) was identified as a more 
proper host for BT production through host screening. Then, BT pathway was 
systematically optimized with gene homolog screening strategy, mainly targeting 
three key steps from xylonic acid to BT catalyzed by d-xylonate dehydratase 
(XD), 2-keto acid decarboxylase (KDC) and aldehyde reductase (ALR). After 
screening six ALRs, four KDCs and four XDs, AdhP from E. coli, KdcA from 
Lactococcus lactis and XylD from Caulobacter crescentus were identified more 
efficiently for BT production. The co-expression of these enzymes in recombinant 
strain BL21-14 led to BT production of 5.1 g/L under the optimized cultivation 
conditions. Finally, BT production from corncob hydrolysates was achieved with a 
titer of 3.4 g/L.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2017.11.062
PMID: 29195152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Mol Biotechnol. 2018 Dec;60(12):887-900. doi: 10.1007/s12033-018-0125-0.

Systematic Comparison of Strategies to Achieve Soluble Expression of Plasmodium 
falciparum Recombinant Proteins in E. coli.

Morales L(1), Hernández P(1), Chaparro-Olaya J(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Parasitología Molecular, Instituto de Biología Molecular, 
Universidad El Bosque, Edificio O. Segundo piso, Avenida Cra. 9 No. 131 A - 02, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(2)Laboratorio de Parasitología Molecular, Instituto de Biología Molecular, 
Universidad El Bosque, Edificio O. Segundo piso, Avenida Cra. 9 No. 131 A - 02, 
Bogotá, Colombia. chaparrojacqueline@unbosque.edu.co.

Constructs containing partial coding sequences of myosin A, myosin B, and 
glideosome-associated protein (50 kDa) of Plasmodium falciparum were used to 
challenge several strategies designed in order to improve the production and 
solubility of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli. Assays were carried out 
inducing expression in a late log phase culture, optimizing the inductor 
concentration, reducing the growth temperature for induced cultures, and 
supplementing additives in the lysis buffer. In addition, recombinant proteins 
were expressed as fusion proteins with three different tags (6His, GST, and MBP) 
in four different E. coli strains. We found that the only condition that 
consistently produced soluble proteins was the use of MBP as a fusion tag, which 
became a valuable tool for detecting the proteins used in this study and did not 
caused any interference in protein-protein interaction assays (Far Western 
Blot). Besides, we found that BL21-pG-KJE8 strain did not improve the solubility 
of any of the recombinant protein produced, while the BL21-CodonPlus(DE3)-RIL 
strain improved the expression of some of them independent of the rare codon 
content. Proteins with rare codons occurring at high frequencies (» 10%) were 
expressed efficiently in strains that do not supplement tRNAs for these 
triplets.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-018-0125-0
PMID: 30259259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Protein Expr Purif. 2022 Mar;191:106021. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.106021. Epub 
2021 Nov 16.

Production, purification and characterization of a double-tagged TEV protease.

Rizza JD(1), Ortega C(2), Carrión F(3), Fló M(4), Correa A(5).

Author information:
(1)Protein Crystallography Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Uruguay.
(2)Recombinant Protein Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Uruguay.
(3)Immunovirology Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Uruguay.
(4)Immunovirology Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Uruguay; Departamento de 
Inmunobiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de la República, Uruguay. 
Electronic address: martinflo@pasteur.edu.uy.
(5)Recombinant Protein Unit, Institut Pasteur de Montevideo, Uruguay. Electronic 
address: acorrea@pasteur.edu.uy.

Many recombinant proteins are products of great value in biomedical and 
industrial fields. The use of solubility and affinity tags are commonly used to 
increase yields and facilitate the purification process. However, it is of 
paramount importance in several applications to remove the fusion tag from the 
final product. In this regard, the Tobacco Etch Virus protease (TEV) is one of 
the most widely used for tag removal. The presence in the TEV of the same tag to 
be removed facilitates the separation of TEV and the tag from the cleaved 
recombinant protein in a single purification step. We generated a double-tagged 
(StrepTagII and HisTag) TEV variant with reported mutations that improve the 
activity, the expression yield in E.coli, and that decrease the 
auto-proteolysis. This TEV can be easily purified by two consecutive affinity 
chromatography steps with high yields and purity. The cleavage reaction can be 
done to almost completeness in as fast as 15 min at room temperature and the 
removal of the protease and tags is performed in a single purification step, 
independent of the previous presence of a StrepTagII or a HisTag on the target.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.106021
PMID: 34798273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2021 Aug 24;48(7-8):kuab039. doi: 
10.1093/jimb/kuab039.

Whole-cell display of Pyrococcus horikoshii glutamate decarboxylase in 
Escherichia coli for high-titer extracellular gamma-aminobutyric acid 
production.

Somasundaram S(1), Jeong J(1), Kumaravel A(1), Hong SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Ulsan, 93 Daehak-ro, 
Nam-gu, Ulsan 44610, Republic of Korea.

We investigated the effect of cell-surface display of glutamate decarboxylase 
(GadB) on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) production in recombinant Escherichia 
coli. We integrated GadB from the hyperthermophilic, anaerobic archaeon 
Pyrococcus horikoshii to the C-terminus of the E. coli outer membrane protein C 
(OmpC). After 12 hr of culturing GadB-displaying cells, the GABA concentration 
in the extracellular medium increased to 3.2 g/l, which is eight times that 
obtained with cells expressing GadB in the cytosol. To further enhance GABA 
production, we increased the temperatures of the culture. At 60°C, the obtained 
GABA concentration was 4.62 g/l after 12 hr of culture, and 5.35 g/l after 
24 hr, which corresponds to a yield of 87.7%.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
of Industrial Microbiology and Biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1093/jimb/kuab039
PMID: 34180519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2016 Mar 11;9:58. doi: 10.1186/s13068-016-0466-5. 
eCollection 2016.

Engineering Escherichia coli for high-yield geraniol production with 
biotransformation of geranyl acetate to geraniol under fed-batch culture.

Liu W(1), Xu X(2), Zhang R(2), Cheng T(3), Cao Y(3), Li X(3), Guo J(4), Liu 
H(3), Xian M(3).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Bio-Based Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, 266101 China ; Key 
Laboratory of Green Process and Engineering, Institute of Process Engineering, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 10090 China ; University of Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049 China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Bio-Based Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, 266101 China ; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049 China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Bio-Based Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, 266101 China.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE 68588 
USA.

Erratum in
    Biotechnol Biofuels. 2016;9:131.

BACKGROUND: Geraniol is an acyclic monoterpene alcohol, which exhibits good 
prospect as a gasoline alternative. Geraniol is naturally encountered in plants 
at low concentrations and an attractive target for microbial engineering. 
Geraniol has been heterologously produced in Escherichia coli, but the low titer 
hinders its industrial applications. Moreover, bioconversion of geraniol by E. 
coli remains largely unknown.
RESULTS: Recombinant overexpression of Ocimum basilicum geraniol synthase, Abies 
grandis geranyl diphosphate synthase, and a heterotic mevalonate pathway in E. 
coli BL21 (DE3) enabled the production of up to 68.6 ± 3 mg/L geraniol in shake 
flasks. Initial fed-batch fermentation only increased geraniol production to 
78.8 mg/L. To further improve the production yield, the fermentation conditions 
were optimized. Firstly, 81.4 % of volatile geraniol was lost during the first 
5 h of fermentation in a solvent-free system. Hence, isopropyl myristate was 
added to the culture medium to form an aqueous-organic two-phase culture system, 
which effectively prevented volatilization of geraniol. Secondly, most of 
geraniol was eventually biotransformed into geranyl acetate by E. coli, thus 
decreasing geraniol production. For the first time, we revealed the role of 
acetylesterase (Aes, EC 3.1.1.6) from E. coli in hydrolyzing geranyl acetate to 
geraniol, and production of geraniol was successfully increased to 2.0 g/L under 
controlled fermentation conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: An efficient geraniol production platform was established by 
overexpressing several key pathway proteins in engineered E. coli strain 
combined with a controlled fermentation system. About 2.0 g/L geraniol was 
obtained using our controllable aqueous-organic two-phase fermentation system, 
which is the highest yield to date. In addition, the interconversion between 
geraniol and geranyl acetate by E. coli was first elucidated. This study 
provided a new and promising strategy for geraniol biosynthesis, which laid a 
basis for large-scale industrial application.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-016-0466-5
PMCID: PMC4787002
PMID: 26973712


166. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2017 Mar 25;33(3):467-477. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.160452.

[Synthesis of soluble proinsulin in a cell-free protein synthesis system].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Hu Y(1), Zhang Y(2), Xu Y(1), Liu T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, Wuhan 
430071, Hubei, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Combinatorial Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery, Ministry of 
Education, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, 
Hubei, China.

Proinsulin (Pins) is the precursor of insulin. The expression of proinsulin in 
Escherichia coli forms inclusion body, so that the recombinant protein should be 
processed with multiple steps to form active insulin. With the development in 
biotechnology, cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) system is becoming a valuable 
tool in protein expression by decoupling the cell growth with protein 
production, which allows it to express proteins that would interfere with cell 
physiology. In this study, we synthesized soluble proinsulin in CFPS system in 
order to establish a new approach for both insulin expression and delivery. The 
soluble proinsulin was successfully expressed in CFPS system by fusing 
proinsulin with two types of fluorescent protein. The expression of Pins-mCherry 
was confirmed by Western blotting analysis, and the Pins-eGFP titer was 
(12.28±3.45) μg/mL in CFPS system. These results implicated that the proinsulin 
was expressed partially in soluble form. Here, for the first time, we 
successfully expressed soluble proinsulin in CFPS system by fluorescent protein 
fusion. These results provide useful information in developing new insulin 
expression and delivery method.

Publisher: 
胰岛素原(Proinsulin，Pins)是胰岛素的合成前体。在大肠杆菌表达系统中，其一般以包涵体的形式存在，需要经过变性复性等后续加工过程才能得到有活性的胰岛素。而无细胞蛋白合成体系 
(Cell-free protein synthesis，CFPS) 
作为一种新型体外蛋白合成手段，突破了细胞的生理限制，已成功应用于多种重组蛋白药物的生产。为了探索胰岛素合成的新方法以满足其在新型给药途径研发中的需求，本研究运用CFPS 
体系进行胰岛素原的可溶性表达。通过将胰岛素原与荧光蛋白进行融合来增加其可溶性，成功在CFPS 体系中表达了胰岛素原融合蛋白。最后使用Western 
blotting 对融合红色荧光蛋白的胰岛素原 (Pins-mCherry) 进行鉴定，利用酶标仪对融合绿色荧光蛋白的胰岛素原 (Pins-eGFP) 
在上清中的表达进行定量分析，结果表明Pins-eGFP 部分可溶，其表达量为 (12.28±3.45) μg/mL。本研究首次实现了融合胰岛素原在CFPS 
系统中的可溶性表达，其融合荧光蛋白的策略显著提升了胰岛素原的可溶性，该结果为探究胰岛素合成新方法及开发基于CFPS 系统的新型胰岛素给药途径奠定了基础。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.160452
PMID: 28941344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Sep;113:8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.01.013. Epub 2015 
May 6.

Efficient soluble expression of active recombinant human cyclin A2 mediated by 
E. coli molecular chaperones.

Grigoroudis AI(1), McInnes C(2), Premnath PN(2), Kontopidis G(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Research and Technology-Thessaly (I.RE.TE.TH.) Centre for 
Research & Technology Hellas (CE.R.TH.), 95 Dimitriados & Pavlou Mela Street, GR 
38333, Volos, Greece; Laboratory of Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Science, 
University of Thessaly, GR-43100 Karditsa, Greece.
(2)Drug Discovery and Biomedical Sciences, South Carolina College of Pharmacy, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, United States.
(3)Institute for Research and Technology-Thessaly (I.RE.TE.TH.) Centre for 
Research & Technology Hellas (CE.R.TH.), 95 Dimitriados & Pavlou Mela Street, GR 
38333, Volos, Greece; Laboratory of Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Science, 
University of Thessaly, GR-43100 Karditsa, Greece. Electronic address: 
gkontopidis@vet.uth.gr.

Bacterial expression of human proteins continues to present a critical challenge 
in protein crystallography and drug design. While human cyclin A constructs have 
been extensively characterized in complex with cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), 
efforts to express the monomeric human cyclin A2 in Escherichia coli in a stable 
form, without the kinase subunit, have been laden with technical difficulties, 
including solubility, yield and purity. Here, optimized conditions are described 
with the aim of generating for first time, sufficient quantities of human 
recombinant cyclin A2 in a soluble and active form for crystallization and 
ligand characterization purposes. The studies involve implementation of a 
His-tagged heterologous expression system under conditions of auto-induction and 
mediated by molecular chaperone-expressing plasmids. A high yield of human 
cyclin A2 was obtained in natively folded and soluble form, through 
co-expression with groups of molecular chaperones from E. coli in various 
combinations. A one-step affinity chromatography method was utilized to purify 
the fusion protein products to homogeneity, and the biological activity 
confirmed through ligand-binding affinity to inhibitory peptides, representing 
alternatives for the key determinants of the CDK2 substrate recruitment site on 
the cyclin regulatory subunit. As a whole, obtaining the active cyclin A without 
the CDK partner (referred to as monomeric in this work) in a straightforward and 
facile manner will obviate protein--production issues with the CDK2/cyclin A 
complex and enable drug discovery efforts for non-ATP competitive CDK inhibition 
through the cyclin groove.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.01.013
PMCID: PMC4456239
PMID: 25956535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Rep Biochem Mol Biol. 2019 Oct;8(3):227-235.

Analysis of Methods to Improve the Solubility of Recombinant Bovine Sex 
Determining Region Y Protein.

Soleymani B(1), Mostafaie A(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Biology Research Center, Health Technology Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Inclusion body formation in E. coli is a significant problem in 
recombinant protein production.The aim of this study was to improve the 
solubility of recombinant bovine sex determining region Y protein(SRY) in BL21 
(DE3) E. coli cells.
METHODS: In this research two recombinant bovine SRY (rbSRY) sequences were 
analyzed; these were wildtype SRY (wtbSRY) and codon-optimized SRY (cobSRY). 
Their expression in various culture conditions was examined; these differences 
included IPTG concentrations, temperatures, and media stabilizers.
RESULTS: IPTG and temperature significantly affected rbSRY solubility (P < 
0.001). The optimum IPTG concentration and temperatures for wtbSRY and cobSRY 
induction were 0.3 mM at 27 and 32 °C,respectively. In addition, arginine and 
sorbitol concentrations significantly affected rbSRY solubility (P <0.01). 
Solubility of rbSRY protein was highest from the cobSRY construct in the 
presence 0.2 M arginine and 0.3 M sorbitol. The highest inclusion body 
production occurred with high glucose concentrations.
CONCLUSION: We found that modifications in temperature and IPTG and stabilizer 
concentrations affected rbSRY solubility.

PMCID: PMC7103077
PMID: 32274394


169. BMC Biochem. 2018 Dec 18;19(1):12. doi: 10.1186/s12858-018-0101-0.

Soluble expression of recombinant midgut zymogen (native propeptide) proteases 
from the Aedes aegypti Mosquito Utilizing E. coli as a host.

Nguyen JT(1), Fong J(1), Fong D(1), Fong T(1), Lucero RM(1), Gallimore JM(1), 
Burata OE(1), Parungao K(1), Rascón AA Jr(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Duncan Hall 612, One Washington Square, San José 
State University, San José, CA, 95192, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Duncan Hall 612, One Washington Square, San José 
State University, San José, CA, 95192, USA. alberto.rascon@sjsu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Studying proteins and enzymes involved in important biological 
processes in the Aedes aegypti mosquito is limited by the quantity that can be 
directly isolated from the mosquito. Adding to this difficulty, digestive 
enzymes (midgut proteases) involved in metabolizing blood meal proteins require 
a more oxidizing environment to allow proper folding of disulfide bonds. 
Therefore, recombinant techniques to express foreign proteins in Escherichia 
coli prove to be effective in producing milligram quantities of the expressed 
product. However, with the most commonly used strains having a reducing 
cytoplasm, soluble expression of recombinant proteases is hampered. Fortunately, 
new E. coli strains with a more oxidizing cytoplasm are now available to ensure 
proper folding of disulfide bonds.
RESULTS: Utilizing an E. coli strain with a more oxidizing cytoplasm (SHuffle® 
T7, New England Biolabs) and changes in bacterial growth temperature has 
resulted in the soluble expression of the four most abundantly expressed Ae. 
aegypti midgut proteases (AaET, AaSPVI, AaSPVII, and AaLT). A previous attempt 
of solubly expressing the full-length zymogen forms of these proteases with the 
leader (signal) sequence and a modified pseudo propeptide with a heterologous 
enterokinase cleavage site led to insoluble recombinant protein expression. In 
combination with the more oxidizing cytoplasm, and changes in growth 
temperature, helped improve the solubility of the zymogen (no leader) native 
propeptide proteases in E. coli. Furthermore, the approach led to autocatalytic 
activation of the proteases during bacterial expression and observable BApNA 
activity. Different time-points after bacterial growth induction were tested to 
determine the time at which the inactive (zymogen) species is observed to 
transition to the active form. This helped with the purification and isolation 
of only the inactive zymogen forms using Nickel affinity.
CONCLUSIONS: The difficulty in solubly expressing recombinant proteases in E. 
coli is caused by the native reducing cytoplasm. However, with bacterial strains 
with a more oxidizing cytoplasm, recombinant soluble expression can be achieved, 
but only in concert with changes in bacterial growth temperature. The method 
described herein should provide a facile starting point to recombinantly 
expressing Ae. aegypti mosquito proteases or proteins dependent on disulfide 
bonds utilizing E. coli as a host.

DOI: 10.1186/s12858-018-0101-0
PMCID: PMC6299515
PMID: 30563449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


170. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 May;102(9):4087-4100. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-018-8907-7. Epub 2018 Mar 17.

Efficient osmolyte-based procedure to increase expression level and solubility 
of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) nucleoprotein in E. coli.

Mohammadinezhad R(1), Farahmand H(2)(3), Jalali SAH(4)(5), Mirvaghefi A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, 
University of Tehran, P.O. Box: 31587-11167, Karaj, Iran.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, 
University of Tehran, P.O. Box: 31587-11167, Karaj, Iran. hfarahmand@ut.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Natural Resources, University of Tehran, 
P.O. Box: 4314, Karaj, Iran. hfarahmand@ut.ac.ir.
(4)Research Institute for Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Isfahan University 
of Technology, Isfahan, 84156-83111, Iran.
(5)Department of Natural Resources, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan, 
84156-83111, Iran.
(6)Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Natural Resources, University of Tehran, 
P.O. Box: 4314, Karaj, Iran.

The nucleoprotein of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) is 
considered as the main target antigen for detection of IHNV infection in 
salmonid fish. This study aimed at improving the expression and solubility of 
IHNV nucleoprotein (IHNV-NP) in E. coli expression system. The effects of 
several expression strategies including host strain type, protein expression 
temperature, heat-shock treatment prior to protein induction, and additives in 
the growth medium and in the cell lysis buffer were examined. Results showed 
that bacterial strain type had a great impact on protein expression level, 
whereas it was not effective in preventing protein aggregation. Production of 
soluble IHNV-NP was proportionally increased with decreased incubation 
temperature. Heat-shock treatment prior to protein induction did not change the 
percent of solubility. For cells grown at low temperature, the presence of 
additives in the lysis buffer enhanced the solubility of IHNV-NP up to 24%. The 
highest yield of soluble protein was obtained via incorporation of osmolytes in 
the growth medium of cells exposed to a mild salt stress, in the following 
order: sucrose > sorbitol > glycerol > glycine. Soluble protein obtained by the 
optimized condition was efficiently purified in high yield and successfully 
detected by two monoclonal antibodies in a sandwich ELISA. Taken together, a 
combination of proper host strain, low-temperature expression, and timely 
application of osmolytes in the growth medium provided sufficient quantities of 
soluble recombinant IHNV-NP that has the potential to be used for diagnostic 
purposes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-018-8907-7
PMID: 29549450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. J Biotechnol. 2015 Jan 20;194:39-47. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.11.025. Epub 
2014 Dec 5.

Escherichia coli EDA is a novel fusion expression partner to improve solubility 
of aggregation-prone heterologous proteins.

Kang YS(1), Song JA(2), Han KY(3), Lee J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: yoonsik89@korea.ac.kr.
(2)SolGent Co., Ltd. Plant and Biomedical Research Institute, 43-10, Techno 
5-ro, Yuseong-Gu, Daejeon 305-504, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
uga33@korea.ac.kr.
(3)Emerging Technology Research Center, Corporate Technology Operations SAIT, 
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: ruddus78@korea.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: leejw@korea.ac.kr.

Since the use of solubility enhancer proteins is one of the effective methods to 
produce active recombinant proteins within Escherichia coli, the development of 
a novel fusion expression partner that can be applied to various 
aggregation-prone proteins is of crucial importance. In our previous work, 
two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) was employed to systematically analyze 
the E. coli BL21 (DE3) proteome profile in response to heat treatment, and KDPG 
aldolase (EDA) was identified as a heat-responsive and aggregation-resistant 
protein. When used as fusion expression partner, EDA significantly increased the 
solubility of seven aggregation-prone heterologous proteins in the E. coli 
cytoplasm. The efficacy of EDA as a fusion expression partner was evaluated 
through the analysis of bioactivity or secondary structure of several target 
proteins: EDA-fusion expression resulted in the synthesis of bioactive human 
ferritin light chain and bacterial arginine deiminase and the formation of 
correct secondary structure of human granulocyte colony stimulation factor.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.11.025
PMID: 25486632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Protein Expr Purif. 2009 Apr;64(2):185-93. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.10.022. Epub 
2008 Nov 11.

Chaperone over-expression in Escherichia coli: apparent increased yields of 
soluble recombinant protein kinases are due mainly to soluble aggregates.

Haacke A(1), Fendrich G, Ramage P, Geiser M.

Author information:
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Center for Proteomic Chemistry, 
Novartis Campus, CH-4002 Basel, Switzerland. annette.haacke@novartis.com

The recombinant expression of eukaryotic proteins in Escherichia coli often 
results in protein aggregation. Several articles report on improved solubility 
and increased purification yields of individual proteins upon over-expression of 
E. coli chaperones but this effect might potentially be protein-specific. To 
find out whether chaperone over-expression is a generally applicable strategy 
for the production of human protein kinases in E. coli, we analyzed 10 kinases, 
mainly as catalytic domain constructs. The kinases studied, namely c-Src, c-Abl, 
Hck, Lck, Igf1R, InsR, KDR, c-Met, b-Raf and Irak4, belong to the tyrosine and 
tyrosine kinase-like groups of kinases. Upon over-expression of the E. coli 
chaperones DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE and GroEL/GroES, the yields of 7 from 10 
polyhistidine-tagged kinases were increased up to 5-fold after nickel-affinity 
purification (IMAC). Additive over-expression of the chaperones ClpB and/or 
trigger factor showed no further improvement. Co-purification of DnaJ and GroEL 
indicated incomplete kinase folding, therefore, the oligomerization state of the 
kinases was determined by size-exclusion chromatography. In our study, kinases 
behave in three different ways. Kinases where yields are not affected by E. coli 
chaperone over-expression e.g. c-Src elute in the monomeric fraction (category 
I). Although IMAC yields increase upon chaperone over-expression, InsR and b-Raf 
kinase are present as soluble aggregates (category II). Igf1R and c-Met kinase 
catalytic domains are partially complexed with E. coli chaperones upon 
over-expression; however, they show approximately 2-fold increased yields of 
monomer (category III). Together, our results suggest that the benefits of 
chaperone over-expression on the production of protein kinases in E. coli are 
indeed case-specific.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.10.022
PMID: 19038347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Anim Biotechnol. 2017 Jan 2;28(1):44-52. doi: 10.1080/10495398.2016.1198796. 
Epub 2016 Aug 10.

Bovine Sex Determining Region Y: Cloning, Optimized Expression, and 
Purification.

Soleymani B(1)(2), Hafezian SH(2), Mianji GR(2), Mansouri K(1), Chaharaein B(3), 
Tajehmiri A(1), Sharifi Tabar M(4), Mostafaie A(1).

Author information:
(1)a Medical Biology Research Center , Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences 
, Kermanshah , Iran.
(2)b Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Animal and Fishery Sciences , 
Agricultural Science and Natural Resources University of Sari , Sari , Iran.
(3)c Agricultural Research Center , Jehad-e Keshavarzi Institute , Kermanshah , 
Iran.
(4)d Schools of Molecular Bioscience , University of Sydney , Sydney , New South 
Wales , Australia.

Sex determining region Y gene (SRY) is located on Y chromosome and encodes a 
protein with 229 amino acids. In this study, ORF region of SRY with a length of 
690 bp was synthesized using PCR and ligated to pET28a (+), then transformed in 
E.coli DH5α. E.coli BL21 (DE3) strain was chosen to express recombinant bovine 
SRY protein. A set of optimization steps was taken including different 
concentrations of IPTG, glucose, and temperatures at differed incubation times 
after the induction. Results showed that temperature points and different 
concentrations of IPTG and glucose had a significant effect (p < 0.01) on total 
protein and recombinant bovine SRY. After purification, various temperatures and 
concentrations of IPTG showed meaningful effects (p < 0.01) on the solubility of 
expressed recombinant SRY. Highest soluble rSRY protein amount was achieved 
where 0.5 mM IPTG and 0.5% glucose was used at 20°C during induction. In the 
absence of glucose, the highest amount of soluble recombinant SRY levels were 
achieved at the concentrations of 0.8 mM of IPTG at 28°C, 20°C, and 1.5 mM IPTG 
at 37°C during induction for 16, 24, and 8 hours, respectively. Regarding the 
results obtained in this study, it could be stated that by decreasing 
temperature and inducer concentration, soluble bovine SRY protein expression 
increases.

DOI: 10.1080/10495398.2016.1198796
PMID: 27715460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019;29(1-6):91-100. doi: 10.1159/000509708. Epub 
2020 Jul 9.

Immunogenicity Evaluation of Chimeric Subunit Vaccine Comprising Adhesion Coli 
Surface Antigens from Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.

Khoobbakht D(1), Zare Karizi S(2), Motamedi MJ(3), Kazemi R(3), Roghanian P(1), 
Amani J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Science and Research 
Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, School of Biological Science, 
Varamin-Pishva, Branch of Islamic Azad University, Varamin, Iran.
(3)Green Gene Company, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings 
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran, 
jafar.amani@gmail.com.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is the most common agent of diarrhea 
morbidity in developing countries. ETEC adheres to host intestinal epithelial 
cells via various colonization factors. The CooD and CotD proteins play a 
significant role in bacteria binding to the intestinal epithelial cells as 
adhesin tip subunits of CS1 and CS2 pili. The purpose here was to design a new 
construction containing cooD and cotD genes and use several types of 
bioinformatics software to predict the structural and immunological properties 
of the designed antigen. The fusion gene was synthesized with codon bias of E. 
coli in order to increase the expression level of the protein. The amino acid 
sequences, protein structure, and immunogenicity properties of potential 
antigens were analyzed in silico. The chimeric protein was expressed in E. 
coliBL21 (DE3). The antigenicity of the recombinant proteins was verified by 
Western blotting and ELISA. In order to assess the induced immunity, the 
immunized mice were challenged with wild-type ETEC by an intraperitoneal route. 
Immunological analyses showed the production of a high titer of IgG serum with 
no sign of serum-mucosal IgA antibody response. The result of the challenge 
assay showed that 30% of immunized mice survived. The results of this study 
showed that CooD-CotD recombinant protein can stimulate immunity against ETEC. 
The designed chimera could be a prototype for the subunit vaccine, which is 
worthy of further consideration.

© 2020 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000509708
PMID: 32645695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 Mar;24(3):452-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1872-2075(08)60025-4.

[Soluble expression of recombinant human BMP6 in Escherichia coli and its 
purification and bioassay in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Lei R(1), Qiao Y, Yan J, Yang S, Zhu T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Molecular Genetics, College of Medicine, Nankai 
University, Tianjin 300071, China.

BMP6 is a potent protein for future treatment strategies of bone regeneration as 
it is a very important regulator of bone homeostasis. Active BMP6 is a dimer 
containing multidisulfide bonds and is a highly hydrophobic protein prone to 
aggregation. To obtain soluble and active BMP6 in Escherichia coli, we compared 
the effects of four N-terminal fusion tags (TRX, GST, MBP and CBD) and 
N-terminal His6-tag. The expression and solubility were tested under the 
different conditions (expression hosts, temperatures and inductor 
concentrations). A series of experiments leads to the finding that the placement 
of MBP before the BMP6 is best in availing the soluble expression of the 
protein. Our study alsodemonstrates that in E. coli BL21trxB(DE3) cytoplasm, 
which is a thioredoxin reductase mutant strain, soluble homodimeric BMP6 can be 
formed. The overexpressed MBP-BMP6 fusion protein is purified by chromatography, 
and shown to be functionally active.

DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2075(08)60025-4
PMID: 18589822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2017 Jun;15(1):179-185. doi: 10.1016/j.jgeb.2016.12.006. 
Epub 2017 Jan 13.

Chemical complexity of protein determines optimal E. coli expression host; A 
comparative study using Erythropoietin, Streptokinase and Tumor Necrosis Factor 
Receptor.

Ramkumar S(1), Rabindranath Pai V(1), Thangadurai C(1), Priya Murugan V(1).

Author information:
(1)Genetic Engineering Unit, Centre for Biotechnology, Anna University, Sardar 
Patel Road, Guindy, Chennai 600 025, India.

High throughput expression of proteins is often hampered by the failure of 
certain proteins to express in the particular E. coli host strain used for the 
study. The identification of a host strain compatible for a wide variety of 
proteins is desirable. In this study, the recombinant expression of therapeutic 
proteins Erythropoietin (EPO), Streptokinase (SK) and Tumor Necrosis Factor 
Receptor Extra cellular domain (TNFR ED) that vary widely in their chemical 
nature was studied in four different strains of E. coli namely BL21 (DE3), BL21 
(DE3) pLys S, BL21 (DE3) Rosetta pLys S and GJ1158. Since there are no previous 
report for the analysis of expression and solubility of the above mentioned 
proteins we studied the same in various E. coli stains. Here we report that E. 
coli strain GJ1158 which uses salt induction was found to be the most suitable 
for overexpression of all the three proteins. Interestingly rare codons were 
found not to play any significant role in the expression. Protein toxicity and 
aggregation propensity were also studied. One of the major factors influencing 
expression was the tendency of the protein to aggregate which in turn influences 
folding and toxicity levels. The solubility of the proteins was inversely 
proportional to aggregation. Expression levels were in the order of TNFR 
ED < EPO < SK. In conclusion, it was observed that E. coli GJ1158, a strain 
known to decrease aggregation of proteins was found to be more suited for 
expression. This is the first time GJ1158 has been included in this kind of 
analysis for comparison of protein expression in various E. coli hosts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgeb.2016.12.006
PMCID: PMC6296564
PMID: 30647654


177. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2020 Jun;36(6):549-554.

[Prokaryotic expression of PE8 protein from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (H37Rv) 
and preparation of its polyclonal antibody in rabbits].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu T(1), Zhang L(2), Qian Z(3), Li B(3), Wang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, School of Laboratory Medicine, Bengbu 
Medical College, Bengbu 233030, China.
(2)Research Center of Laboratory Medicine, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 
233030, China.
(3)Department of Immunology, Anhui Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity, 
Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233030, China.
(4)Department of Immunology, Anhui Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity, 
Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233030, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
0600071@bbmc.edu.cn.

Objective To clone proline-glutamate 8 (PE8) gene segment from Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis (H37Rv), construct the recombinant plasmid pET28a-PE8, express 
recombinant PE8 protein, and prepare its polyclonal antibody. Methods Using a 
standard homologous recombination cloning technology, we cloned the PE8 gene 
into the prokaryotic vector pET28a. After sequence confirmation, it was 
transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3) and treated with 0.5 mmol/L 
isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to induce protein expression. We 
purified and renatured the recombinant PE8 protein, and immunized New Zealand 
rabbits to prepare the polyclonal antibody. Antibody titer was determined by 
indirect ELISA and the specificity was evaluated by Western blot analysis. 
Results The recombinant plasmid pET28a-PE8 was successfully constructed, and the 
PE8 protein was primarily expressed in an inclusion body in E. coli. After 
renaturation and purification, a purity of about 90% of the recombinant protein 
was achieved. The titer of the polyclonal antibody was higher than 1:430 080. 
The polyclonal antibody could specifically recognize the recombinant PE8 
protein. Conclusion We have successfully expressed and purified recombinant PE8 
protein, which can be further utilized to generate PE8 polyclonal antibody with 
acceptable titer and specificity.

PMID: 32696746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Microb Cell Fact. 2011 Oct 12;10:79. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-79.

Co-production of GroELS discriminates between intrinsic and thermally-induced 
recombinant protein aggregation during substrate quality control.

Platas G(1), Rodríguez-Carmona E, García-Fruitós E, Cano-Garrido O, Villaverde 
A.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The effects and effectiveness of the chaperone pair GroELS on the 
yield and quality of recombinant polypeptides produced in Escherichia coli are 
matter of controversy, as the reported activities of this complex are not always 
consistent and eventually indicate undesired side effects. The divergence in the 
reported data could be due, at least partially, to different experimental 
conditions in independent research approaches.
RESULTS: We have then selected two structurally different model proteins (namely 
GFP and E. coli β-galactosidase) and two derived aggregation-prone fusions to 
explore, in a systematic way, the eventual effects of GroELS co-production on 
yield, solubility and conformational quality. Host cells were cultured at two 
alternative temperatures below the threshold at which thermal stress is expected 
to be triggered, to minimize the involvement of independent stress factors.
CONCLUSIONS: From the analysis of protein yield, solubility and biological 
activity of the four model proteins produced alone or along the chaperones, we 
conclude that GroELS impacts on yield and quality of aggregation-prone proteins 
with intrinsic determinants but not on thermally induced protein aggregation. No 
effective modifications of protein solubility have been observed, but 
significant stabilization of small (encapsulable) substrates and moderate 
chaperone-induced degradation of larger (excluded) polypeptides. These findings 
indicate that the activities of this chaperone pair in the context of actively 
producing recombinant bacteria discriminate between intrinsic and 
thermally-induced protein aggregation, and that the side effects of GroELS 
overproduction might be determined by substrate size.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-79
PMCID: PMC3207889
PMID: 21992454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. AMB Express. 2021 Dec 27;11(1):178. doi: 10.1186/s13568-021-01340-3.

Thermococcus sp. KS-1 PPIase as a fusion partner improving soluble production of 
aromatic amino acid decarboxylase.

Koyanagi T(1), Hara A(2), Kobayashi K(2), Habara Y(2), Nakagawa A(3), Minami 
H(3), Katayama T(4), Misawa N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Ishikawa Prefectural University, Nonoichi, 
Ishikawa, 921-8836, Japan. koyataka@ishikawa-pu.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Food Science, Ishikawa Prefectural University, Nonoichi, 
Ishikawa, 921-8836, Japan.
(3)Research Institute for Bioresources and Biotechnology, Ishikawa Prefectural 
University, Nonoichi, Ishikawa, 921-8836, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Biostudies, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, 606-8501, Kyoto, 
Japan.

Peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase, EC 5.2.1.8) catalyzes the 
racemization reaction of proline residues on a polypeptide chain. This enzyme is 
also known to function as a molecular chaperon to stabilize protein conformation 
during the folding process. In this study, we noted FK506 binding protein 
(FKBP)-type PPIase from a hyperthemophilic archaeon Thermococcus sp. strain KS-1 
(PPIase KS-1) to improve the solubility of Pseudomonas putida aromatic amino 
acid decarboxylase (AADC) that is an indispensable enzyme for fermentative 
production of plant isoquinoline alkaloids. AADC fused N-terminally with the 
PPIase KS-1 (PPIase KS-1-AADC), which was synthesized utilizing Escherichia coli 
host, showed improved solubility and, consequently, the cell-free extract from 
the recombinant strain exhibited 2.6- to 3.4-fold elevated AADC activity than 
that from the control strain that expressed the AADC gene without PPIase KS-1. 
On the other hand, its thermostability was slightly decreased by fusing PPIase 
KS-1. The recombinant E. coli cells expressing the PPIase KS-1-AADC gene 
produced dopamine and phenylethylamine from L-dopa and phenylalanine by two- and 
threefold faster, respectively, as compared with the control strain. We further 
demonstrated that the efficacy of PPIase KS-1-AADC in solubility and activity 
enhancement was a little but obviously higher than that of AADC fused 
N-terminally with NusA protein, which has been assumed to be the most effective 
protein solubilizer. These results suggest that PPIase KS-1 can be used as one 
of the best choices for producing heterologous proteins as active forms in E. 
coli.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-021-01340-3
PMCID: PMC8712285
PMID: 34958446

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interest.


180. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 May;27(5):535-8.

[Expression of VP0 protein of enterovirus 71 in Escherichia coli and generation 
of the corresponding polyclonal antibodies in guinea pigs].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng YF(1), Liu QW, Ku ZQ, Wen JJ, Shan H, Huang Z.

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science & Technology, Qingdao Agricultural University, 
Qingdao 266109, China. yanfangfeng85@gmail.com

AIM: To obtain recombinant VP0 protein of enterovirus 71, and generate the 
corresponding VP0-specific polyclonal antibodies, for molecular detection and 
characterization of EV71.
METHODS: The VP0 gene was amplified by PCR and cloned into vector pET26b to make 
pET-VP0 for the prokaryotic expression of VP0. The recombinant VP0 protein was 
expressed in E.coli BL21 harboring pET-VP0, purified from inclusion bodies, 
renatured, and subsequently used to immunize guinea pigs. The resultant antisera 
were evaluated for anti-VP0 titer, binding capacity and specificity by ELISA, 
immunofluorescence staining and Western blot assays.
RESULTS: Recombinant protein VP0 was efficiently produced in E.coli. 
Immunization of guinea pigs with recombinant VP0 elicited high-titer (1:10(6)) 
VP0-specific antibodies. Western blot analysis showed the resultant anti-VP0 
sera reacted with E.coli-expressed VP0 as well as EV71 propagated in Vero cells. 
Moreover, the antisera positively recognized EV71 infected cells by 
immunofluorescence staining.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant VP0 and the corresponding polyclonal antibodies can 
be used to identify and characterize EV71, and therefore represent useful agents 
and tools for the development of new diagnostic methods and vaccines for EV71.

PMID: 21557912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Microb Cell Fact. 2018 Sep 20;17(1):148. doi: 10.1186/s12934-018-0997-5.

Custom made inclusion bodies: impact of classical process parameters and 
physiological parameters on inclusion body quality attributes.

Slouka C(1), Kopp J(1), Hutwimmer S(2), Strahammer M(1), Strohmer D(1), 
Eitenberger E(3), Schwaighofer A(3), Herwig C(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Sandoz GmbH, Biochemiestrasse 10, 6250, Kundl, Tirol, Austria.
(3)Institute of Chemical Technology and Analytics, Getreidemarkt 9/164, 1060, 
Vienna, Austria.
(4)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, Vienna, Austria. christoph.herwig@tuwien.ac.at.
(5)Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Research 
Area Biochemical Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, Gumpendorfer 
Strasse 1a, 1060, Vienna, Austria. christoph.herwig@tuwien.ac.at.

BACKGROUND: The bacterium E. coli is a major host for recombinant protein 
production of non-glycosylated products. Depending on the expression strategy, 
the recombinant protein can be located intracellularly. In many cases the 
formation of inclusion bodies (IBs), protein aggregates inside of the cytoplasm 
of the cell, is favored in order to achieve high productivities and to cope with 
toxic products. However, subsequent downstream processing, including 
homogenization of the cells, centrifugation or solubilization of the IBs, is 
prone to variable process performance or can be characterized by low extraction 
yields as published elsewhere. It is hypothesized that variations in IB quality 
attributes (QA) are responsible for those effects and that such attributes can 
be controlled by upstream process conditions. This contribution is aimed at 
analyzing how standard process parameters, such as pH and temperature (T) as 
well as different controlled levels of physiological parameters, such as 
specific substrate uptake rates, can vary IB quality attributes.
RESULTS: Classical process parameters like pH and T influence the expression of 
analyzed IB. The effect on the three QAs titer, size and purity could be 
successfully revealed. The developed data driven model showed that low 
temperatures and low pH are favorable for the expression of the two tested 
industrially relevant proteins. Based on this knowledge, physiological control 
using specific substrate feeding rate (of glucose) qs,Glu is altered and the 
impact is tested for one protein.
CONCLUSIONS: Time dependent monitoring of IB QA-titer, purity, IB bead 
size-showed a dependence on classical process parameters pH and temperature. 
These findings are confirmed using a second industrially relevant strain. 
Optimized process conditions for pH and temperature were used to determine 
dependence on the physiological parameters, the specific substrate uptake rate 
(qs,Glu). Higher qs,Glu were shown to have a strong influence on the analyzed IB 
QAs and drastically increase the titer and purity in early time stages. We 
therefore present a novel approach to modulate-time dependently-quality 
attributes in upstream processing to enable robust downstream processing.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-018-0997-5
PMCID: PMC6148765
PMID: 30236107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2019 Jul;35(7):653-658.

[Prokaryotic expression of human retinol binding protein and preparation of 
rabbit polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Lian F(1), Zhu Z(2), Pei H(1), Chen Y(1), Xie Y(1), Zhang T(1), Lu Z(1), Qiu 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Second Affiliated Hospital of Hainan 
Medical University, Haikou 570311, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Second Affiliated Hospital of Hainan 
Medical University, Haikou 570311, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
zhuzhongyuan197@163.com.

Objective To produce rabbit polyclonal antibodies against human retinol-binding 
protein (RBP). Methods RBP cDNA was amplified by reverse transcription 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and then the amplified products were inserted 
into prokaryotic expression vector pET-28a(+) to construct recombinant plasmid 
pET-28a(+)-RBP. The established plasmid was then transformed into E. coli. 
Isopropylthio-β-D-thiogalactoside (IPTG) was used to induce the expression of 
recombinant protein His-RBP in E. coli. The expression products were identified 
by SDS-PAGE from different clones of E. coli to screen positive bacteria, 
followed by amplifying culture. His-RBP protein was purified from the expression 
products of positive clones. The purified recombinant His-RBP was used to 
immunize New Zealand white rabbits. Antisera were acquired after four times of 
booster immunization. The prepared purified polyclonal antibodies were 
identified by SDS-PAGE, ELISA and Western blotting. Results We successfully 
constructed the recombinant plasmid pET-28a(+)-RBP, and acquired recombinant 
protein His-RBP of high purity. ELISA showed that the antibody titer reached 
1:512 000. Conclusion The rabbit polyclonal antibodies against human RBP have 
been successfully prepared.

PMID: 31537250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Microb Cell Fact. 2010 Aug 18;9:62. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-62.

Enhancement of solubility in Escherichia coli and purification of an 
aminotransferase from Sphingopyxis sp. MTA144 for deamination of hydrolyzed 
fumonisin B(1).

Hartinger D(1), Heinl S, Schwartz HE, Grabherr R, Schatzmayr G, Haltrich D, Moll 
WD.

Author information:
(1)BIOMIN Research Center, Technopark 1, 3430 Tulln, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Fumonisin B(1) is a cancerogenic mycotoxin produced by Fusarium 
verticillioides and other fungi. Sphingopyxis sp. MTA144 can degrade fumonisin 
B(1), and a key enzyme in the catabolic pathway is an aminotransferase which 
removes the C2-amino group from hydrolyzed fumonisin B(1). In order to study 
this aminotransferase with respect to a possible future application in enzymatic 
fumonisin detoxification, we attempted expression of the corresponding fumI gene 
in E. coli and purification of the enzyme. Since the aminotransferase initially 
accumulated in inclusion bodies, we compared the effects of induction level, 
host strain, expression temperature, solubility enhancers and a fusion partner 
on enzyme solubility and activity.
RESULTS: When expressed from a T7 promoter at 30 degrees C, the aminotransferase 
accumulated invariably in inclusion bodies in DE3 lysogens of the E. coli 
strains BL21, HMS174, Rosetta 2, Origami 2, or Rosetta-gami. Omission of the 
isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) used for induction caused a 
reduction of expression level, but no enhancement of solubility. Likewise, 
protein production but not solubility correlated with the IPTG concentration in 
E. coli Tuner(DE3). Addition of the solubility enhancers betaine and sorbitol or 
the co-enzyme pyridoxal phosphate showed no effect. Maltose-binding protein, 
used as an N-terminal fusion partner, promoted solubility at 30 degrees C or 
less, but not at 37 degrees C. Low enzyme activity and subsequent aggregation in 
the course of purification and cleavage indicated that the soluble fusion 
protein contained incorrectly folded aminotransferase. Expression in E. coli 
ArcticExpress(DE3), which co-expresses two cold-adapted chaperonins, at 11 
degrees C finally resulted in production of appreciable amounts of active 
enzyme. Since His tag-mediated affinity purification from this strain was 
hindered by co-elution of chaperonin, two steps of chromatography with optimized 
imidazole concentration in the binding buffer were performed to obtain 1.45 mg 
of apparently homogeneous aminotransferase per liter of expression culture.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that only reduction of temperature, but not reduction of 
expression level or fusion to maltose-binding protein helped to produce 
correctly folded, active aminotransferase FumI in E. coli. Our results may 
provide a starting point for soluble expression of related aminotransferases or 
other aggregation-prone proteins in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-62
PMCID: PMC2933618
PMID: 20718948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Jul;99:64-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.04.001. Epub 2014 
Apr 13.

A novel self-cleavage system for production of soluble recombinant protein in 
Escherichia coli.

Feng Y(1), Xu Q(2), Yang T(2), Sun E(2), Li J(2), Shi D(3), Wu D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northeast Agricultural University, 59 Mucai Street, Xiangfang District, Harbin 
150030, Heilongjiang Province, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Veterinary Public 
Health, Ministry of Agriculture, State Key Laboratory of Veterinary 
Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Maduan Street, Nangang District, Harbin 150001, 
Heilongjiang Province, PR China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Veterinary Public Health, Ministry of Agriculture, 
State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Maduan Street, Nangang 
District, Harbin 150001, Heilongjiang Province, PR China.
(3)Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northeast Agricultural University, 59 Mucai Street, Xiangfang District, Harbin 
150030, Heilongjiang Province, PR China.
(4)Department of Basic Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northeast Agricultural University, 59 Mucai Street, Xiangfang District, Harbin 
150030, Heilongjiang Province, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Veterinary Public 
Health, Ministry of Agriculture, State Key Laboratory of Veterinary 
Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Maduan Street, Nangang District, Harbin 150001, 
Heilongjiang Province, PR China. Electronic address: dlwu@hvri.ac.cn.

Many approaches for generating large quantities of recombinant protein in 
Escherichia coli fuse the protein of interest to a protein tag to enhance 
solubility and improve recovery. However, the fusion tags can confound 
downstream applications, as the fusion partner can alter the structure and 
biological activity of the recombinant protein and proteolytic removal of the 
fusion tags can be expensive. Here we describe a new system for production of 
native proteins in E. coli that allows for removal of the fusion tag via 
intracellular self-cleavage by the human rhinovirus 3C (HRV3C) protease. This 
system allows for parallel cloning of target protein coding sequences into six 
different expression vectors, each with a different fusion partner tag to 
enhance solubility during induction. Temperature-regulated expression of the 
HRV3C protease allows for intracellular removal of the fusion tag following 
induction, and the liberated recombinant protein can be purified by affinity 
chromatography by virtue of a short six-histidine tag. This system will be an 
attractive approach for the expression and purification of recombinant proteins 
free of solubility-enhancing fusion tags, and should be amenable to 
high-throughput applications.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.04.001
PMID: 24727155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 Jan;153:7-17. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.08.001. Epub 2018 
Aug 3.

Fusion to Tetrahymena thermophila granule lattice protein 1 confers solubility 
to sexual stage malaria antigens in Escherichia coli.

Agrawal A(1), Bisharyan Y(1), Papoyan A(1), Bednenko J(1), Cardarelli J(1), Yao 
M(1), Clark T(2), Berkmen M(3), Ke N(3), Colussi P(4).

Author information:
(1)TetraGenetics Inc, Arlington, MA, USA.
(2)TetraGenetics Inc, Arlington, MA, USA; Department of Immunology and 
Microbiology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(3)New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA.
(4)TetraGenetics Inc, Arlington, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
pcolussi@tetragenetics.com.

A transmission-blocking vaccine targeting the sexual stages of Plasmodium 
species could play a key role in eradicating malaria. Multiple studies have 
identified the P. falciparum proteins Pfs25 and Pfs48/45 as prime targets for 
transmission-blocking vaccines. Although significant advances have been made in 
recombinant expression of these antigens, they remain difficult to produce at 
large scale and lack strong immunogenicity as subunit antigens. We linked a 
self-assembling protein, granule lattice protein 1 (Grl1p), from the ciliated 
protozoan, Tetrahymena thermophila, to regions of the ectodomains of either 
Pfs25 or Pfs48/45. We found that resulting protein chimera could be produced in 
E. coli as nanoparticles that could be readily purified in soluble form. When 
produced in the E. coli SHuffle strain, fusion to Grl1p dramatically increased 
solubility of target antigens while at the same time directing the formation of 
particles with diameters centering on 38 and 25 nm depending on the antigen. In 
a number of instances, co-expression with chaperone proteins and induction at a 
lower temperature further increased expression and solubility. Based on Western 
blotting and ELISA analysis, Pfs25 and Pfs48/45 retained their 
transmission-blocking epitopes within E. coli-derived particles, and the 
particles themselves elicited strong antibody responses in rabbits when given 
with an aluminum-based adjuvant. Antibodies against Pfs25-containing 
nanoparticles blocked parasite transmission in standard membrane-feeding assays. 
In conclusion, fusion to Grl1p can act as a solubility enhancer for proteins 
with limited solubility while retaining correct folding, which may be useful for 
applications such as the production of vaccines and other biologics.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.08.001
PMCID: PMC6189453
PMID: 30081196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 Dec;32(2):252-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.07.001.

A favorable solubility partner for the recombinant expression of streptavidin.

Sørensen HP(1), Sperling-Petersen HU, Mortensen KK.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of BioDesign, Department of Molecular Biology, Aarhus University, 
Gustav Wieds Vej 10 C, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Recombinant streptavidin is extremely difficult to express at high levels in the 
cytoplasm of Escherichia coli without the formation of inclusion bodies. Fusing 
a solubility enhancing partner to an aggregation prone protein is a widely used 
tool to circumvent inclusion body formation. Here, we use streptavidin as a 
target protein to test the properties of N-terminal fragments of translation 
initiation factor IF2 from E. coli as a solubility partner. Domain I (residue 
1-158) of IF2 is superior to the well-established solubility partners 
maltose-binding protein (MBP) and NusA for soluble expression of active 
streptavidin. The number of active streptavidin molecules isolated by 
chromatography is increased threefold when domain I is used as solubility 
partner as compared to MBP or NusA. The relatively small size, high 
expressivity, and extreme solubility make domain I of IF2 an ideal partner for 
streptavidin and may also prevent other recombinant proteins such as ScFv 
antibodies from being expressed as insoluble aggregates in the cytoplasm of E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.07.001
PMID: 14965771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Gene. 2009 Jul 1;440(1-2):9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2009.03.011. Epub 2009 Mar 
26.

Chaperone-fusion expression plasmid vectors for improved solubility of 
recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli.

Kyratsous CA(1), Silverstein SJ, DeLong CR, Panagiotidis CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki, 54124, Greece. cak2113@columbia.edu

The enteric bacterium Escherichia coli is the most extensively used prokaryotic 
organism for production of proteins of therapeutic or commercial interest. 
However, it is common that heterologous over-expressed recombinant proteins fail 
to properly fold resulting in formation of insoluble aggregates known as 
inclusion bodies. Complex systems have been developed that employ simultaneous 
over-expression of chaperone proteins to aid proper folding and solubility 
during bacterial expression. Here we describe a simple method whereby a protein 
of interest, when fused in frame to the E. coli chaperones DnaK or GroEL, is 
readily expressed in large amounts in a soluble form. This system was tested 
using expression of the mouse prion protein PrP, which is normally insoluble in 
bacteria. We show that while in trans over-expression of the chaperone DnaK 
failed to alter partitioning of PrP from the insoluble inclusion body fraction 
to the soluble cytosol, expression of a DnaK-PrP fusion protein yielded large 
amounts of soluble protein. Similar results were achieved with a fragment of 
insoluble Varicella Zoster virus protein ORF21p. In theory this approach could 
be applied to any protein that partitions with inclusion bodies to render it 
soluble for production in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2009.03.011
PMCID: PMC2683908
PMID: 19328840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Sep;32(9):149. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-016-2085-5. Epub 2016 Jul 18.

Improved 1, 2, 4-butanetriol production from an engineered Escherichia coli by 
co-expression of different chaperone proteins.

Lu X(1)(2), He S(1)(2), Zong H(1)(2), Song J(3), Chen W(2), Zhuge B(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(3)School of Chemistry and Material, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China. 
bzhuge@163.com.
(5)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China. bzhuge@163.com.

1, 2, 4-Butanetriol (BT) is a high-value non-natural chemical and has important 
applications in polymers, medical production and military industry. In the 
constructed BT biosynthesis pathway from xylose in Escherichia coli, the xylose 
dehydrogenase (Xdh) and the benzoylformate decarboxylase (MdlC) are heterologous 
enzymes and the activity of MdlC is the key limiting factor for BT production. 
In this study, six chaperone protein systems were introduced into the engineered 
E. coli harboring the recombinant BT pathway. The chaperone GroES-GroEL was 
beneficial to Xdh activity but had a negative effect on MdlC activity and BT 
titer. The plasmid pTf16 containing the tig gene (trigger factor) was beneficial 
to Xdh and MdlC activities and improved the BT titer from 0.42 to 0.56 g/l from 
20 g/l xylose. However, co-expression of trigger factor and GroES-GroEL 
simultaneously reduced the activity of MdlC and had no effect on the BT 
production. The plasmid pKJE7 harboring dnaK-dnaJ-grpE showed significant 
negative effects on these enzyme activities and cell growth, leading to 
completely restrained the BT production. Similarly, co-expression of DnaKJ-GrpPE 
and GroES-GroEL simultaneously reduced Xdh and MdlC activities and decreased the 
BT titer by 45.2 %. The BT production of the engineered E. coli harboring pTf16 
was further improved to the highest level at 1.01 g/l under pH control (pH 7). 
This work showed the potential application of chaperone proteins in 
microorganism engineering to get high production of target compounds as an 
effective and valuable tool.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-016-2085-5
PMID: 27430516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2017 Feb;101(3):1133-1142. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-016-7848-2. Epub 2016 Sep 28.

A novel self-cleavable tag Zbasic-∆I-CM and its application in the soluble 
expression of recombinant human interleukin-15 in Escherichia coli.

Shi S(1), Chen H(1), Jiang H(2), Xie Y(2), Zhang L(1), Li N(1), Zhu C(1), Chen 
J(1), Luo H(1), Wang J(1), Feng L(3), Lu H(4), Zhu J(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Cell and Therapeutic Antibody, Ministry of 
Education, School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Jecho Laboratories, Inc., Frederick, MD, USA.
(3)Instrumental Analysis Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Engineering Research Center of Cell and Therapeutic Antibody, Ministry of 
Education, School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. 
roadeer@sjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Engineering Research Center of Cell and Therapeutic Antibody, Ministry of 
Education, School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. 
jianweiz@sjtu.edu.cn.
(6)Jecho Laboratories, Inc., Frederick, MD, USA. jianweiz@sjtu.edu.cn.

Soluble expression of recombinant therapeutic proteins in Escherichia coli (E. 
coli) has been a challenging task in biopharmaceutical development. In this 
study, a novel self-cleavable tag Zbasic-intein has been constructed for the 
soluble expression and purification of a recombinant cytokine, human 
interleukin-15 (IL-15). We screened several solubilizing tags fused with the 
self-cleavable Mycobacterium tuberculosis recA mini-intein ∆I-CM and 
demonstrated that Zbasic tag can significantly improve the solubility of the 
product with correspondent to the intein activity. The fusion protein 
"Zbasic-∆I-CM-IL-15" was expressed with high solubility and easily enriched by 
the cost-effective cation-exchange chromatography. The self-cleavage of the 
fusion tag Zbasic-∆I-CM was then induced by a pH shift, with an activation 
energy of 7.48 kcal/mol. The mature IL-15 with natural N-terminus was released 
and further purified by hydrophobic interaction and anion-exchange 
chromatography. High-resolution reverse-phase high-performance liquid 
chromatography and mass spectrometry analysis confirmed that the product was of 
high purity and correct mass. With a CTLL-2 cell proliferation-based assay, the 
EC50 was evaluated to be of about 0.126 ng/mL, similar to the product in 
clinical trials. By avoiding the time-consuming denaturing-refolding steps in 
previously reported processes, the current method is efficient and 
cost-effective. The novel tag Zbasic-∆I-CM can be potentially applied to 
large-scale manufacturing of recombinant human cytokines as well as other 
mammalian-sourced proteins in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-016-7848-2
PMID: 27683210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Comput Biol Chem. 2019 Jun;80:225-233. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2019.03.003. 
Epub 2019 Mar 29.

In silico analysis of different signal peptides for the secretory production of 
recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor in Escherichia coli.

Dastjerdeh MS(1), Marashiyan M(1), Boroujeni MB(1), Golkar M(2), Shokrgozar 
MA(3), Rahimi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Molecular Parasitology Laboratory, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(3)National Cell Bank, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, 1316943551 Iran.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: rahimi.h1981@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The recombinant human truncated Keratinocyte growth factor 
(Palifermin) is the only FDA approved medicine for the treatment of oral 
mucositis. The Keratinocyte growth factor is a fairly unstable protein due to 
its high aggregation propensity and therefore its expression as a secretory 
protein may results in the production of a protein with more stability, higher 
solubility, better folding, enhanced biological activity, N-terminal 
authenticity and simplified downstream processing.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was in silico evaluation of 31 different 
secretory signal peptides to determine the best theoretical candidates for the 
secretory production of recombinant truncated human KGF in E. coli.
METHODS: Thirty different prokaryotic signal peptides experimentally shown to be 
capable of recombinant protein secretion in E.coli, along with the native KGF 
signal peptide were selected for further investigations. The signal peptide 
sequences were retrieved from the UniProt database. The ability of SPs to act as 
a secretory leader peptide for rhKGF and the location of cleavage sites were 
predicted by SignalP 4.1. Physicochemical properties of the signal peptides, 
which may influence protein secretion, were analyzed by ProtParam and PROSOII. 
Furthermore, the mRNA secondary structure and Gibbs free energy profile of the 
selected SPs were analyzed in the fusion state with the rhKGF using Visual Gene 
Developer package.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Computational analysis of the physicochemical properties 
affecting protein secretion identified Sec-B dependent OmpC, Bla, and StaI and 
SRP dependent TolB signal peptides as the best theoretical candidates for the 
secretory production of recombinant truncated human KGF in E.coli.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2019.03.003
PMID: 30999249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Metab Eng. 2013 Jul;18:53-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2013.04.002. Epub 2013 Apr 19.

Engineered heterologous FPP synthases-mediated Z,E-FPP synthesis in E. coli.

Wang C(1), Zhou J, Jang HJ, Yoon SH, Kim JY, Lee SG, Choi ES, Kim SW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science-BK21 Program, PMBBRC, Gyeongsang National 
University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea.

Production of Z-type farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) has not been reported in 
Escherichia coli. Here we present the fusion enzyme (ILRv) of E. coli E,E-FPP 
synthase (IspA) and Mycobacterium tuberculosis Z,E-FPP synthase (Rv1086), which 
can produce primarily Z,E-FPP rather than E,E-FPP, the predominant stereoisomer 
found in most organisms. Z,E-farnesol (FOH) was produced from E. coli harboring 
the bottom portion of the MVA pathway and the fusion FPP synthase (ILRv) at a 
titer of 115.6 mg/L in 2YT medium containing 1% (v/v) glycerol as a carbon 
source and 5 mM mevalonate. The Z,E-FOH production was improved by 15-fold, 
compared with 7.7 mg/L obtained from the co-overexpression of separate IspA and 
Rv1086. The Z,E-FPP was not metabolized in native metabolic pathways of E. coli. 
It would be of interest to produce Z,E-FPP derived sesquiterpenes from 
recombinant E. coli due to no loss of Z,E-FPP substrate in endogenous metabolism 
of the host strain.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2013.04.002
PMID: 23608473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Adv Pharm Bull. 2015 Dec;5(Suppl 1):621-7. doi: 10.15171/apb.2015.084. Epub 2015 
Dec 31.

Chaperone-Assisted Soluble Expression of a Humanized Anti-EGFR ScFv Antibody in 
E. Coli.

Veisi K(1), Farajnia S(2), Zarghami N(3), Khoram Khorshid HR(4), Samadi N(5), 
Ahdi Khosroshahi S(6), Zarei Jaliani H(7).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. ; Department of Medical Biotechnologies, Faculty of Advanced Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. ; Student 
Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Biotechnology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. ; Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, Faculty of Advanced Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. ; Department of Medical Biotechnologies, Faculty of Advanced Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(6)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(7)Department of Medical Genetics, School of Medicine, Shahid Sadoughi 
University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.

PURPOSE: Formation of inclusion bodies is a considerable obstacle threatening 
the advantages of E. coli expression system to serve as the most common and 
easiest system in recombinant protein production. To solve this problem, several 
strategies have been proposed among which application of molecular chaperones is 
of remarkable consideration. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects 
of molecular chaperones on soluble expression of aggregation-prone humanized 
single chain antibody.
METHODS: To increase the solubility of a humanized single chain antibody 
(hscFv), different chaperone plasmids including PG-tf2 (GroES- GroEL- tig), 
ptf16 (tig) and pGro7 (GroES- GroEL) were co-expressed in BL21 cells containing 
pET-22b- hscFv construct. The solubility of recombinant hscFv was analyzed by 
SDS-PAGE. After purification of soluble hscFv by Ni-NTA column, the biological 
activity and cytotoxicity of the recombinant protein were tested by ELISA and 
MTT assay, respectively.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE analysis of the hscFv revealed that chaperone utility 
remarkably increased (up to 50%) the solubility of the protein. ELISA test and 
MTT assay analyses also confirmed the biological activity of the gained hscFv in 
reaction with A431 cells (OD value: 2.6) and inhibition of their proliferation, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study revealed that co-expression of chaperones 
with hscFv leads to remarkable increase in the solubility of the recombinant 
hscFv, which could be of great consideration for large scale production of 
recombinant single chain antibodies.

DOI: 10.15171/apb.2015.084
PMCID: PMC4708032
PMID: 26793607


193. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2008 Jan 15;861(2):218-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2007.10.008. Epub 2007 Oct 13.

Renaturation, purification and characterization of streptokinase expressed as 
inclusion body in recombinant E. coli.

Cherish Babu PV(1), Srinivas VK, Krishna Mohan V, Krishna E.

Author information:
(1)Bharat Biotech International Limited, Genome Valley, Hyderabad 500078, India. 
pelluricherish@rediffmail.com

Recombinant protein purification is facilitated using high expression systems 
which produce larger quantities of streptokinase protein as inclusion bodies. As 
the accumulation of active streptokinase is toxic to the host cells, we have 
optimized the conditions to achieve large amounts of streptokinase in the form 
of inclusion bodies. The solubility and yield of pure protein are highly 
dependent on various combinations of chemical additives, ionic and non-ionic 
detergents and salts, with solubilizing agents followed by refolding of 
denatured protein into active form. As the extraction of the purified 
streptokinase from inclusion bodies requires denaturation and a subsequent 
refolding step, careful balancing steps were needed to develop under different 
controlled conditions. Here the purified fragments of refolded proteins were 
screened to select the conditions that yield the active streptokinase having 
native conformation. The maximum specific activity of the purified streptokinase 
was achieved by these methods. The refolded recombinant streptokinase was 
analyzed by RP-HPLC showing a purity of 99%. Size exclusion chromatography 
profile shows that there are minimal aggregates in the active streptokinase 
protein and the percentage of renaturation is around 99%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2007.10.008
PMID: 17981102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. J Biosci Bioeng. 2018 Feb;125(2):160-167. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2017.08.016. 
Epub 2017 Sep 18.

Evaluation of rice tetraticopeptide domain-containing thioredoxin as a novel 
solubility-enhancing fusion tag in Escherichia coli.

Xiao W(1), Jiang L(1), Wang W(1), Wang R(1), Fan J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, 
PR China.
(2)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, 
PR China. Electronic address: fanjun@ahau.edu.cn.

Fusion of solubility-enhancing tag is frequently used for improving soluble 
production of target protein in Escherichia coli. The Arabidopsis 
tetraticopeptide domain-containing thioredoxin (TDX) has been documented to 
exhibit functions of disulfide reductase, foldase chaperone, and holdase 
chaperone. Here, we identified that fusion of rice TDX with the smaller size 
increased soluble expression levels of three fluorescent proteins with different 
fluorophores in the E. coli strain BL21(DE3) or the Rosetta (DE3) strain with 
coexpression of six rare tRNAs, but decreased conformational quality of certain 
fluorescent proteins, as comparison with the His6-tagged ones. Among five maize 
proteins, the rice TDX fusion carrier displayed higher solubility-enhancing 
activity than the yeast SUMO3 tag toward three proteins in both E. coli strains. 
Five fusion constructs were cleaved with the co-expressed TEV protease variant, 
but the released target proteins were partly insolubly aggregated in vivo. 
Attachment of the His6-tag to the TDX tagged proteins had little impact on 
protein solubility. After Ni-NTA purification, five His6-TDX tagged proteins 
displayed different apparent purities. Taken together, our work presents that 
rice TDX tag is a novel solubility enhancer.

Copyright © 2017 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2017.08.016
PMID: 28927835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2019;49(1):74-81. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1536988. 
Epub 2019 Jan 21.

A fast and simple approach to optimize the unit operation high pressure 
homogenization - a case study for a soluble therapeutic protein in E. coli.

Pekarsky A(1), Spadiut O(1), Rajamanickam V(2), Wurm DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)a Research Division Biochemical Engineering , Institute of Chemical, 
Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, TU Wien , Vienna , Austria.
(2)b Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses , Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Bioscience 
Engineering, TU Wien , Vienna , Austria.

Escherichia coli is one of the most commonly used host organisms for the 
production of recombinant biopharmaceuticals. E. coli is usually characterized 
by fast growth on cheap media and high productivity, but one drawback is its 
intracellular product formation. Product recovery from E. coli bioprocesses 
requires tedious downstream processing (DSP). A typical E. coli DSP for an 
intracellular product starts with a cell disruption step to access the product. 
Different methods exist, but a scalable process is usually achieved by high 
pressure homogenization (HPH). The protocols for HPH are often applied 
universally without adapting them to the recombinant product, even though HPH 
can affect product quantity and quality. Based on our previous study on cell 
disruption efficiency, we aimed at screening operational conditions to maximize 
not only product quantity, but also product quality of a soluble therapeutic 
protein expressed in E. coli. We screened for critical process parameters (CPPs) 
using a multivariate approach (design of experiments; DoE) during HPH to 
maximize product titer and achieve sufficient product quality, based on 
predefined critical quality attributes (CQAs). In this case study, we were able 
to gain valuable knowledge on the efficiency of HPH on E. coli cell disruption, 
product release and its impact on CQAs. Our results show that HPH is a key unit 
operation that has to be optimized for each product.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1536988
PMID: 30664394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. ACS Chem Biol. 2013 Sep 20;8(9):1888-93. doi: 10.1021/cb400189j. Epub 2013 Jun 
17.

High-titer heterologous production in E. coli of lyngbyatoxin, a protein kinase 
C activator from an uncultured marine cyanobacterium.

Ongley SE(1), Bian X, Zhang Y, Chau R, Gerwick WH, Müller R, Neilan BA.

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, The University of New 
South Wales , Sydney 2052, Australia.

Many chemically complex cyanobacterial polyketides and nonribosomal peptides are 
of great pharmaceutical interest, but the levels required for exploitation are 
difficult to achieve from native sources. Here we develop a framework for the 
expression of these multifunctional cyanobacterial assembly lines in Escherichia 
coli using the lyngbyatoxin biosynthetic pathway, derived from a marine 
microbial assemblage dominated by the cyanobacterium Moorea producens. 
Heterologous expression of this pathway afforded high titers of both 
lyngbyatoxin A (25.6 mg L(-1)) and its precursor indolactam-V (150 mg L(-1)). 
Production, isolation, and identification of all expected chemical intermediates 
of lyngbyatoxin biosynthesis in E. coli also confirmed the previously proposed 
biosynthetic route, setting a solid chemical foundation for future pathway 
engineering. The successful production of the nonribosomal peptide lyngbyatoxin 
A in E. coli also opens the possibility for future heterologous expression, 
characterization, and exploitation of other cyanobacterial natural product 
pathways.

DOI: 10.1021/cb400189j
PMCID: PMC3880125
PMID: 23751865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Mol Biotechnol. 2006 Jul;33(3):199-209. doi: 10.1385/MB:33:3:199.

Effects of E. coli chaperones on the solubility of human receptors in an in 
vitro expression system.

Endo S(1), Tomimoto Y, Shimizu H, Taniguchi Y, Onizuka T.

Author information:
(1)Biological Science Laboratories, Toray Research Center, Inc., 1111 Tebiro, 
Kamakura, Kanagawa 248-8555, Japan.

The implementation of efficient technologies for the production of recombinant 
mammalian membrane receptors is an outstanding challenge in understanding 
receptor-ligand actions and the development of therapeutic antibodies. In order 
to improve the solubility of recombinant extracellular domains of human membrane 
receptors expressed in Escherichia coli, proteins were synthesized by an E. coli 
in vitro translation system supplemented with bacterial molecular chaperones, 
such as GroEL-GroES (GroEL/ES), Trigger factor (TF), a DnaK-DnaJ-GrpE chaperone 
system (DnaKJE), and/or a heat shock protein Hsp100, ClpB. The following three 
proteins that are prone to aggregation were examined: the extracellular domain 
(ECD) or the second immunoglobulin-like domain (IgII) of the human neurotrophin 
receptor TrkC (TrkC-ECD and TrkC-IgII), and the C-type lectin carbohydrate 
recognition domain of the human asialoglycoprotein receptor (ASGPR HI CRD). The 
cooperative chaperone system including GroEL/ES, DnaKJE and ClpB had a marked 
effect on the solubility of TrkC-ECD and TrkC-IgII, and the GroEL/ES-DnaKJE-TF 
chaperone system was more effective for TrkC-IgII. The GroEL/ES-DnaKJE-TF 
chaperone network increased the yield of soluble ASGPR HI CRD. The present 
findings demonstrate that E. coli molecular chaperones are useful in improving 
the yield of soluble recombinant extracellular domains of human membrane 
receptors in an E. coli expression system.

DOI: 10.1385/MB:33:3:199
PMID: 16946450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Biochem Eng J. 2013 Oct 15;79:129-135. doi: 10.1016/j.bej.2013.07.011.

The effects of protein solubility on the RNA Integrity Number (RIN) for 
recombinant Escherichia coli.

Salazar MA(#)(1), Fernando LP(#)(1), Baig F(2), Harcum SW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Clemson University.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Clemson University.
(#)Contributed equally

High quality, intact messenger RNA (mRNA) is required for DNA microarray and 
reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis and is generally 
obtained from total RNA isolations. The most widely recognized measure of RNA 
integrity is the RNA Integrity Number (RIN) obtained from the Agilent 
Bioanalyzer, as it provides sizing, quantification, and quality control 
measures. This work describes comparisons of the RIN values obtained for 
recombinant E. coli. Uninduced recombinant E. coli cultures were examined, as 
well as induced cultures that produced either a soluble or insoluble recombinant 
protein. The uninduced cultures and the induced cultures producing soluble 
protein had higher RIN values than the induced cultures producing insoluble 
protein. These lower RIN values for E. coli producing the insoluble protein 
indicate that cellular degradation of the ribosomal RNA species is the likely 
cause of the lower RIN values. As the use of DNA microarrays and other gene 
expression tools increase in usage in the industrial recombinant protein 
production community, these results suggest the need for further studies to 
determine acceptable RIN ranges for gene expression analysis and effects of 
various culture conditions on RIN values for recombinant E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bej.2013.07.011
PMCID: PMC3799817
PMID: 24151430


199. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Nov;86(1):53-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.08.021. Epub 
2012 Sep 13.

Large-scale production of soluble recombinant amyloid-β peptide 1-42 using 
cold-inducible expression system.

Kim EK(1), Moon JC, Lee JM, Jeong MS, Oh C, Ahn SM, Yoo YJ, Jang HH.

Author information:
(1)Lee Gil Ya Cancer and Diabetes Institute, Gachon University, Incheon 406-799, 
Republic of Korea.

Amyloid-β peptide 1-42 (Aβ(1-42)), the predominant form in senile plaques, plays 
important roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Because Aβ(1-42) has 
aggregation-prone nature, it has been difficult to produce in a soluble state in 
bacterial expression systems. In this study, we modified our expression system 
to increase the soluble fraction of Aβ(1-42) in Escherichia coli (E. coli) 
cells. The expression level and solubility of recombinant Aβ(1-42) induced at 
the low temperature (16°C) is highly increased compared to that induced at 37°C. 
To optimize expression temperature, the coding region of Aβ(1-42) was 
constructed in a pCold vector, pCold-TF, which has a hexahistidine-tagged 
trigger factor (TF). Recombinant Aβ(1-42) was expressed primarily as a soluble 
protein using pCold vector system and purified with a nickel-chelating resin. 
When the toxic effect of recombinant Aβ(1-42) examined on human neuroblastoma 
SH-SY5Y cells, the purified Aβ(1-42) induced cell toxicity on SH-SY5Y cells. In 
conclusion, the system developed in this study will provide a useful method for 
the production of aggregation prone-peptide such as Aβ(1-42).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.08.021
PMID: 22982229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Mol Biol. 2001 Sep 7;312(1):79-93. doi: 10.1006/jmbi.2001.4914.

Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein as a molecular chaperone for 
recombinant intracellular cytoplasmic single-chain antibodies.

Bach H(1), Mazor Y, Shaky S, Shoham-Lev A, Berdichevsky Y, Gutnick DL, Benhar I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, The George S. Wise 
Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Green Building, Room 202, Ramat 
Aviv 69978, Israel.

Recombinant single-chain antibodies (scFvs) that are expressed in the cytoplasm 
of cells are of considerable biotechnological and therapeutic potential. 
However, the reducing environment of the cytoplasm inhibits the formation of the 
intradomain disulfide bonds that are essential for correct folding and 
functionality of these antibody fragments. Thus, scFvs expressed in the 
cytoplasm are mostly insoluble and inactive.Here, we describe a general approach 
for stabilizing scFvs for efficient functional expression in the cell cytoplasm 
in a soluble, active form. The scFvs are expressed as C-terminal fusions with 
the Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein (MBP). We tested a large panel of 
scFvs that were derived from hybridomas and from murine and human scFv phage 
display and expression libraries by comparing their stability and functionality 
as un-fused versus MBP fused proteins. We found that MBP fused scFvs are 
expressed at high levels in the cytoplasm of E. coli as soluble and active 
proteins regardless of the redox state of the bacterial cytoplasm. In contrast, 
most un-fused scFvs can be produced (to much lower levels) in a functional form 
only when expressed in trxB(-) but not in trxB(+) E. coli cells. We show that 
MBP-scFv fusions are more stable than the corresponding un-fused scFvs, and that 
they perform more efficiently in vivo as cytoplasmic intrabodies in E. coli. 
Thus, MBP seems to function as a molecular chaperone that promotes the 
solubility and stability of scFvs that are fused to it.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jmbi.2001.4914
PMID: 11545587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. N Biotechnol. 2018 Sep 25;44:31-40. doi: 10.1016/j.nbt.2018.04.006. Epub 2018 
Apr 22.

Quality and cost assessment of a recombinant antibody fragment produced from 
mammalian, yeast and prokaryotic host cells: A case study prior to 
pharmaceutical development.

Lebozec K(1), Jandrot-Perrus M(2), Avenard G(1), Favre-Bulle O(3), Billiald 
P(4).

Author information:
(1)Acticor Biotech SAS, Hôpital Bichat - Inserm U1148, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 
F75018 Paris, France.
(2)Acticor Biotech SAS, Hôpital Bichat - Inserm U1148, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 
F75018 Paris, France; Inserm-University Paris Diderot UMR S1148, Hôpital Bichat, 
46 rue Henri Huchard, F75018 Paris, France.
(3)Acticor Biotech SAS, Hôpital Bichat - Inserm U1148, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 
F75018 Paris, France; 3Biotech, 4 Place Louis Armand, F75012 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: olivier.favrebulle@acticor-biotech.com.
(4)Acticor Biotech SAS, Hôpital Bichat - Inserm U1148, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 
F75018 Paris, France; University Paris-Sud, University Paris-Saclay, School of 
Pharmacy, Inserm UMR-S 1193, 5 rue J.-B. Clément, F92296 Châtenay-Malabry, 
France. Electronic address: philippe.billiald@u-psud.fr.

Monoclonal antibody fragments (Fab) are a promising class of therapeutic agents. 
Fabs are aglycosylated proteins and so many expression platforms have been 
developed including prokaryotic, yeast and mammalian cells. However, these 
platforms are not equivalent in terms of cell line development and culture time, 
product quality and possibly cost of production that greatly influence the 
success of a drug candidate's pharmaceutical development. This study is an 
assessment of the humanized Fab fragment ACT017 produced from two microorganisms 
(Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris) and one mammalian cell host (CHO). 
Following low scale production and Protein L-affinity purification under generic 
conditions, physico-chemical and functional quality assessments were carried out 
prior to economic analysis of industrial scale production using a specialized 
software (Biosolve, Biopharm Services, UK). Results show higher titer production 
when using E. coli but associated with high heterogeneity of the protein content 
recovered in the supernatant. We also observed glycoforms of the Fab produced 
from P. pastoris, while Fab secreted from CHO was the most homogeneous despite a 
much longer culture time and slightly higher estimated cost of goods. This study 
may help inform future pharmaceutical development of this class of therapeutic 
proteins.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbt.2018.04.006
PMID: 29689305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. J Biotechnol. 2022 Mar 10;347:67-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2022.02.008. Epub 
2022 Feb 19.

Production of hesperetin from naringenin in an engineered Escherichia coli 
consortium.

Liu J(1), Tian M(1), Wang Z(1), Xiao F(1), Huang X(1), Shan Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Longping Branch Graduate School, Hunan University, Changsha 410082, China; 
Hunan Agriculture Product Processing Institute, Hunan Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Changsha 410125, China; Hunan Key Lab of Fruits & Vegetables Storage, 
Processing, Quality and Safety, Hunan Agricultural Products Processing 
Institute, Changsha 410125, China.
(2)Longping Branch Graduate School, Hunan University, Changsha 410082, China; 
Hunan Agriculture Product Processing Institute, Hunan Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Changsha 410125, China; Hunan Key Lab of Fruits & Vegetables Storage, 
Processing, Quality and Safety, Hunan Agricultural Products Processing 
Institute, Changsha 410125, China. Electronic address: sy6302@hnu.edu.cn.

Hesperetin, a methoxylated flavanone, has numerous biological activities. Access 
to this compound is currently restricted by its low abundance in plants, which 
limits its practical applicability. To provide an alternative, eco-friendly 
production source, we developed a biosynthetic pathway of hesperetin in an 
engineered Escherichia coli consortium, which was fed with naringenin as a 
precursor and demonstrated good hesperetin production. The biosynthetic pathway 
was divided into two modules. The first recombinant host harbored the pathway 
genes from two different species: a flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H) gene from 
Gentiana triflora and a cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) gene from Arabidopsis 
thaliana. The second strain heterologously expressed a gene encoding a flavonoid 
4'-O-methyltransferase (MpOMT) from Mentha × piperita, which was N-terminally 
fused to a Sumo tag. A construct expressing a 29 aa N-terminally truncated F3'H 
and CPR was the most effective combination for the conversion of naringenin. The 
strain expressing the Sumo-tagged MpOMT protein exhibited an increase in the 
final hesperetin titer, reaching 5.9 mg/L. Simultaneous overexpression of metK 
(coding for the endogenous S-adenosyl-l-methionine [SAM] synthase) further 
improved the hesperetin titer by 25.1%. Finally, the designed E. coli consortium 
harboring the two modules efficiently converted naringenin to hesperetin 
(37.1 mg/L). This work reports the construction of a multi-step in vivo cascade 
biocatalyst for the biotransformation of naringenin to hesperetin. It also 
illustrates the potential of the E. coli consortium system for producing other 
O-methylated flavonoids.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2022.02.008
PMID: 35192875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2014 Aug;37(8):1517-26. doi: 10.1007/s00449-013-1123-z. 
Epub 2014 Jan 16.

High-level soluble and functional expression of Trigonopsis variabilis D-amino 
acid oxidase in Escherichia coli.

Deng S(1), Su E, Ma X, Yang S, Wei D.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 
200237, People's Republic of China.

D-Amino acid oxidase is an important biocatalyst used in a variety of fields, 
and its economically justified level recombinant expression in Escherichia coli 
has not been established. To accomplish this, after a single Phe54Tyr 
substitution, fusion proteins of D-amino acid oxidase from Trigonopsis 
variabilis (TvDAO) with 6 × His-tags were constructed and expressed in E. coli. 
The effects of his-tags fusing position were revealed. Significant increase in 
holoenzyme percent and protein solubility made N-terminus tagged TvDAO (termed 
NHDAO) a suitable choice for TvDAO production. However, reduced cell growth and 
protein production rates were also observed for the NHDAO bearing strains. To 
optimize the performance of NHDAO production, changes of culture medium were 
tested. Finally, a production of 140 U/mL or 3.48 g active enzyme per liter 
which accounted for 41.4 % of the total protein, and a specific activity of 
16.68 U/mg for the crude extract, were achieved in a 3.7 L fermenter in 28.5 h. 
This indicated a possibility for functional and economical TvDAO expression in 
E. coli to meet the industrial need.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-013-1123-z
PMID: 24425540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;824:109-29. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-433-9_5.

Heat-shock protein fusion vectors for improved expression of soluble recombinant 
proteins in Escherichia coli.

Kyratsous CA(1), Panagiotidis CA.

Author information:
(1)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, NY, USA.

Molecular chaperones or heat-shock proteins (HSPs) are protein machines that 
interact with unfolded or partially folded polypeptides and assist them in 
attaining their proper conformation. The folding reaction relies on a complex 
array of scaffolding effects and ATP-driven conformational changes that mediate 
the temporary unfolding and subsequent refolding of protein substrates. DnaK and 
GroEL are the two major Escherichia coli chaperones. They belong to the HSP70 
and HSP60 families of proteins, respectively, and play a major role in protein 
folding. Here, we describe a set of bacterial expression vectors that permits 
the fusion of a protein of interest to DnaK or GroEL and its subsequent 
quantitative expression in a soluble, easily purifiable form. We also provide a 
set of compatible co-chaperone expression constructs that permit the 
simultaneous co-expression of the DnaK and GroEL physiological partners to 
further increase protein solubility. The system was successfully tested using 
the murine prion protein (PrP). Although PrP is normally insoluble when 
expressed in E. coli, we show that utilizing our vectors it can be produced in a 
soluble form as a DnaK or GroEL fusion. This system is useful for the production 
of a large array of proteins that fail to fold properly when expressed in E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-433-9_5
PMID: 22160895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 May 28;28(5):739-747. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1802.02007.

Bioproduction of trans-10,cis-12-Conjugated Linoleic Acid by a Highly Soluble 
and Conveniently Extracted Linoleic Acid Isomerase and an Extracellularly 
Expressed Lipase from Recombinant Escherichia coli Strains.

Huang M(1)(2), Lu X(1)(2), Zong H(1)(2), Zhuge B(1)(2), Shen W(3).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, P.R. 
China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(3)Culture and Information Center of Industrial Microorganism of China 
Universities, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, P.R. China.

The low solubility and high-cost recovery of Propionibacterium acnes 
polyunsaturated fatty acid isomerase (PAI) are key problems in the bioproduction 
of high value-added conjugated linoleic acid (CLA). To improve the solubility of 
recombinant PAI, six chaperone proteins were coexpressed with PAI. Introduction 
of GroELS proteins dramatically improved the PAI solubility from 29% to 97%, 
with increased activity by 57.8%. Combined expression of DnaKJ-GrpE and GroELS 
proteins increased the activity by 11.9%. In contrast, coexpression of 
DnaKJ-GrpE proteins significantly reduced the activity by 57.4%. Plasmids pTf16 
harboring the tig gene and pG-Tf2 containing the tig and groEL-groES genes had 
no visible impact on PAI expression. The lytic protein E was then introduced 
into the recombinant Escherichia coli to develop a cell autolysis system. A 35% 
activity of total intracellular PAI was released from the cytoplasm by 
suspending the lysed cells in distilled water. The PAI recovery was further 
improved to 81% by optimizing the release conditions. The lipase from Rhizopus 
oryzae was also expressed in E. coli, with an extracellular activity of 110.9 
U/ml. By using the free PAI and lipase as catalysts, a joint system was 
established for producing CLA from sunflower oil. Under the optimized 
conditions, the maximum titer of t-10,c-12-CLA reached 9.4 g/l. This work 
provides an effective and low-cost strategy to improve the solubility and 
recovery of the recombinant intracellular PAI for further large-scale production 
of CLA.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1802.02007
PMID: 29807398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Dec;104:14-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.09.010. Epub 2014 
Sep 26.

Expression and purification of soluble human cystatin C in Escherichia coli with 
maltose-binding protein as a soluble partner.

Zhang Q(1), Zhao X(1), Xu X(2), Tang B(2), Zha Z(1), Zhang M(1), Yao D(1), Chen 
X(1), Wu X(1), Cao L(3), Guo H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Drum Tower Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, 321 Zhongshan Road, Nanjing 210008, Jiangsu, PR China.
(2)Vazyme Biotech Co., Ltd, Nanjing 210000, Jiangsu, PR China.
(3)College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, 
Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, PR China; Vazyme Biotech Co., Ltd, Nanjing 210000, 
Jiangsu, PR China. Electronic address: caolin@njau.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Urology, Drum Tower Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, 321 Zhongshan Road, Nanjing 210008, Jiangsu, PR China. Electronic 
address: dr.guohongqian@gmail.com.

Human cystatin C (CYSC) is a 13-kDa endogenous cysteine proteinase inhibitor and 
was investigated as a replacement for creatinine as a marker of renal function. 
However, expressing recombinant CYSC is difficult in Escherichia coli because of 
resulting low yield and insufficient purity and insolubility. Here, we cloned 
and fused CYSC to the C-terminus of three soluble partners - maltose-binding 
protein (MBP), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and translation initiation factor 
2 domain I (IF2) - to screen for their ability to improve the solubility of 
recombinant CYSC when expressed in E. coli. MBP was best at enhancing the 
soluble expression of CYSC, with soluble fractions accounting for 92.8±3.11% of 
all proteins. For scaled production, we purified the de-tagged CYSC by using a 
3C protease-cleaved MBP-T3-CYSC fused protein with immobilized metal affinity 
chromatography and cation-affinity purification. The molecular weights of the 
de-tagged CYSC and human natural CYSC were similar, and the former could react 
specifically with CYSC polyclonal antibody. Moreover, the de-tagged CYSC 
displayed full biological activity against papain and cathepsin B, which was 
very similar to that of the human natural CYSC protein standard. We provide a 
method to produce large amounts of soluble recombinant human CYSC in E. coli.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.09.010
PMID: 25260712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Iran J Biotechnol. 2016 Dec;14(4):243-249. doi: 10.15171/ijb.1465.

Enhancement of Solubility and Specific Activity of a Cu/Zn Superoxide Dismutase 
by Co-expression with a Copper Chaperone in Escherichia coli.

Eiamphungporn W(1), Yainoy S(1)(2), Prachayasittikul V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand.
(2)Center for Research and Innovation, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Human Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (hSOD1) is an antioxidant enzyme 
with potential as a therapeutic agent. However, heterologous expression of hSOD1 
has remained an issue due to Cu2+ insufficiency at protein active site, leading 
to low solubility and enzymatic activity.
OBJECTIVES: The effect of co-expressed human copper chaperone (hCCS) to enhance 
the solubility and enzymatic activity of hSOD1 in E. coli was investigated in 
the presence and absence of Cu2+.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: pETDuet-1-hSOD1 and pETDuet-1-hCCS-hSOD1 were constructed 
and individually transformed into E. coli strain BL21(DE3). The recombinant 
hSOD1 was expressed and purified using immobilized metal affinity 
chromatography. The yield and specific activity of hSOD1 in all conditions were 
studied.
RESULTS: Co-expression with hCCS increased hSOD1 solubility at 37°C, but this 
effect was not observed at 25°C. Notably, the specific activity of hSOD1 was 
enhanced by 1.5 fold and greater than 3 fold when co-expressed with hCCS at 25°C 
with and without Cu2+ supplement, respectively. However, the chaperone 
co-expression did not significantly increase the yield of hSOD1 comparable to 
the expression of hSOD1 alone.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first report demonstrating a potential use of 
hCCS for heterologous production of hSOD1 with high enzymatic activity.

DOI: 10.15171/ijb.1465
PMCID: PMC5434994
PMID: 28959342


208. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Oct;138:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.06.018. Epub 2017 
Jun 30.

Enhanced soluble production of cholera toxin B subunit in Escherichia coli by 
co-expression of SKP chaperones.

Zhang Y(1), Qiao X(1), Yu X(1), Chen J(1), Hou L(1), Bi Z(1), Zheng Q(2), Hou 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)National Research Center of Engineering and Technology for Veterinary 
Biologicals, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu 
Co-innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Important Animal Infectious 
Diseases and Zoonoses, Jiangsu, China.
(2)National Research Center of Engineering and Technology for Veterinary 
Biologicals, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu 
Co-innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Important Animal Infectious 
Diseases and Zoonoses, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: njcvc1302@163.com.
(3)National Research Center of Engineering and Technology for Veterinary 
Biologicals, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu 
Co-innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Important Animal Infectious 
Diseases and Zoonoses, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: houjiboccvv@163.com.

The cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) is a nontoxic portion of the cholera toxin 
that retains mucosal adjuvant properties. Expression of CTB in Escherichia coli 
is difficult as CTB aggregates and accumulates as insoluble inclusion bodies. To 
remedy this problem, the periplasmic chaperone, SKP, was investigated as 
possible co-expression partner to increase the solubility of recombinant CTB 
(rCTB) in E. coli. The result showed co-expression of SKP enhanced the soluble 
expression of rCTB in E. coli. Moreover, soluble rCTB was successfully expressed 
and secreted into the periplasmic space through the direction of the LTB leader 
signal. rCTB in periplasm was purified using an immobilized d-galactose resin; 
GM1-ELISA experiments showed that rCTB retains strong GM1 ganglioside-binding 
activity. Intranasal administration of ovalbumin (OVA) with rCTB significantly 
induced both mucosal and humoral immune responses specific to OVA. These data 
indicate that co-expression of the molecular chaperone SKP with CTB increased 
the solubility of rCTB while maintaining its function.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.06.018
PMID: 28673733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Biotechnol Lett. 2018 Jan;40(1):165-171. doi: 10.1007/s10529-017-2456-5. Epub 
2017 Oct 16.

Novel strategy for phenyllactic acid biosynthesis from phenylalanine by whole 
cell recombinant Escherichia coli coexpressing L-phenylalanine oxidase and 
L-lactate dehydrogenase.

Zhang J(1), Li X(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Food and Bioresource Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Peking University, Beijing, 100871, China. 1706388148@pku.edu.cn.
(2)College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural 
University, Beijing, 100083, China.

OBJECTIVES: To enhance the efficiency of phenyllactic acid (PLA) production from 
L-phenylalanine (L-Phe) by introducing a novel artificial pathway into 
Escherichia coli RESULTS: The production of PLA from L-Phe by recombinant E. 
coli (ldh-lpox) coexpressing L-phenylalanine oxidase and L-lactate dehydrogenase 
was studied. The new PLA synthesis pathway was confirmed to be efficient in 
recombinant E. coli. Subsequently, two different biocatalyst processes were 
carried out and optimized for PLA production. In the whole cell biosynthesis 
process at high cell density using collected recombinant cells as catalyst, at 
optimal conditions (L-Phe 6 g/l, pH 7.5, 35 °C, CDW 24.5 g/l and 200 rpm), the 
recombinant E. coli (ldh-lpox) produced 1.62 g PLA/l with a conversion of 28% 
from L-Phe. Similarly, during the two-temperature-stage fermentation process in 
flasks using IPTG-induced cells, the temperature in the second stage was 
increased to 35 °C to benefit the biocatalyst process, and comparable 
phenyllactic acid production of 1.47 g/l was obtained from 12 g L-Phe/l.
CONCLUSIONS: Recombinant E. coli (ldh-lpox) was efficient in PLA production 
realizing a high titer of several folds compared with studies using L-Phe as 
substrate.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-017-2456-5
PMID: 29038927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Microb Cell Fact. 2014 Dec 4;13:167. doi: 10.1186/s12934-014-0167-3.

Expanding the recombinant protein quality in Lactococcus lactis.

Cano-Garrido O(1)(2)(3), Rueda FL(4)(5)(6), Sànchez-García L(7)(8)(9), 
Ruiz-Ávila L(10), Bosser R(11), Villaverde A(12)(13)(14), García-Fruitós 
E(15)(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. Olivia.Cano@uab.cat.
(2)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. Olivia.Cano@uab.cat.
(3)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Bellaterra, 
08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. Olivia.Cano@uab.cat.
(4)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
fabianleonardo.rueda@e-campus.uab.cat.
(5)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
fabianleonardo.rueda@e-campus.uab.cat.
(6)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Bellaterra, 
08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. fabianleonardo.rueda@e-campus.uab.cat.
(7)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
laura.sanchezgar@e-campus.uab.cat.
(8)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
laura.sanchezgar@e-campus.uab.cat.
(9)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Bellaterra, 
08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. laura.sanchezgar@e-campus.uab.cat.
(10)Spherium Biomed S.L., Avda. Joan XXIII, 10, 08950, Esplugues de Llobregat, 
Barcelona, Spain. lruiz@spheriumbiomed.com.
(11)Spherium Biomed S.L., Avda. Joan XXIII, 10, 08950, Esplugues de Llobregat, 
Barcelona, Spain. rbosser@spheriumbiomed.com.
(12)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
Antoni.Villaverde@uab.es.
(13)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
Antoni.Villaverde@uab.es.
(14)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), 
Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. Antoni.Villaverde@uab.es.
(15)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
Elena.Garcia.Fruitos@uab.cat.
(16)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
Elena.Garcia.Fruitos@uab.cat.
(17)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), 
Bellaterra, 08193, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. Elena.Garcia.Fruitos@uab.cat.

BACKGROUND: Escherichia coli has been a main host for the production of 
recombinant proteins of biomedical interest, but conformational stress responses 
impose severe bottlenecks that impair the production of soluble, proteolytically 
stable versions of many protein species. In this context, emerging Generally 
Recognized As Safe (GRAS) bacterial hosts provide alternatives as cell factories 
for recombinant protein production, in which limitations associated to the use 
of Gram-negative microorganisms might result minimized. Among them, Lactic Acid 
Bacteria and specially Lactococcus lactis are Gram-positive GRAS organisms in 
which recombinant protein solubility is generically higher and downstream 
facilitated, when compared to E. coli. However, deep analyses of recombinant 
protein quality in this system are still required to completely evaluate its 
performance and potential for improvement.
RESULTS: We have explored here the conformational quality (through specific 
fluorescence emission) and solubility of an aggregation-prone GFP variant 
(VP1GFP) produced in L. lactis. In this context, our results show that 
parameters such as production time, culture conditions and growth temperature 
have a dramatic impact not only on protein yield, but also on protein solubility 
and conformational quality, that are particularly favored under fermentative 
metabolism.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolic regime and cultivation temperature greatly influence 
solubility and conformational quality of an aggregation-prone protein in L. 
lactis. Specifically, the present study proves that anaerobic growth is the 
optimal condition for recombinant protein production purposes. Besides, growth 
temperature plays an important role regulating both protein solubility and 
conformational quality. Additionally, our results also prove the great 
versatility for the manipulation of this bacterial system regarding the 
improvement of functionality, yield and quality of recombinant proteins in this 
species. These findings not only confirm L. lactis as an excellent producer of 
recombinant proteins but also reveal room for significant improvement by the 
exploitation of external protein quality modulators.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-014-0167-3
PMCID: PMC4308903
PMID: 25471301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Biotechnol. 2016 Nov 20;238:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2016.09.002. Epub 2016 
Sep 9.

Engineering the transposition-based baculovirus expression vector system for 
higher efficiency protein production from insect cells.

Mehalko JL(1), Esposito D(2).

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression Laboratory, Cancer Research Technology Program, Frederick 
National Laboratory for Cancer Research, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc. PO Box 
B, Frederick, MD 21702, United States.
(2)Protein Expression Laboratory, Cancer Research Technology Program, Frederick 
National Laboratory for Cancer Research, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc. PO Box 
B, Frederick, MD 21702, United States. Electronic address: dom.esposito@nih.gov.

One of the most common methods for producing recombinant baculovirus for insect 
cell protein production involves a transposition mediated system invented over 2 
decades ago. This Tn7-mediated system, commercially sold as Bac-to-Bac, has 
proven highly useful for construction of high quality baculovirus, but suffers 
from a number of drawbacks which reduce the efficiency of the process and limit 
its utility for high throughput protein production processes. We describe here 
the creation of Bac-2-the-Future, a 2nd generation Tn7-based system for 
recombinant baculovirus production which uses optimized expression vectors, new 
E. coli strains, and enhanced protocols to dramatically enhance the efficiency 
of the baculovirus production process. The new system which we describe 
eliminates the need for additional screening of positive clones, improves the 
efficiency of transposition, and reduces the cost and time required for high 
throughput baculovirus production. The system is compatible with multiple 
cloning methodologies, and has been demonstrated to produce baculovirus with 
equal or better titer and protein productivity than the currently available 
systems.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2016.09.002
PMCID: PMC5067234
PMID: 27616621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Sep;27(9):989-92.

[Preparation and application of polyclonal antibody against mouse IL-1α].

[Article in Chinese]

Lin DD(1), Liu CL, Bao GM, Wu K, Shan L, Liu HY.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Tumor Immunology, Medical College of 
Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.

AIM: To construct a recombinant plasmid encoding mouse IL-1α (mIL-1α), express 
and purify mIL-1α protein, and prepare its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The cDNAs were obtained from the spleen cells of BALB/c mice and the 
full length of mIL-1α gene was amplified by RT-PCR. Then the mIL-1α gene was 
inserted into a prokaryotic expression vector pET32a(+) and the resulting 
recombinant plasmid was transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3). After auto-induction, 
the mIL-1α protein was expressed and purified by electro-elution. An anti-mIL-1α 
polyclonal antibody was raised in New Zealand rabbits after immunization with 
the purified mIL-1α and the titer was determined by ELISA. The specificity of 
the polyclonal antibody was identified by Western blot and flow cytometry.
RESULTS: The recombinant prokaryotic expression vector pET32a(+)-IL-1α was 
successfully constructed, and the mIL-1α protein was expressed and purified. 
ELISA showed the titer of the anti-mIL-1α serum was 1:25 600. Western blot and 
flow cytometry demonstrated the high specificity of the polyclonal antibody to 
IL-1α.
CONCLUSION: The rabbit anti-mIL-1α polyclonal antibody with high titer and 
specificity has been prepared after immunization with the purified mIL-1α 
protein, facilitating further functional studies of IL-1α.

PMID: 21906474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Bioengineering (Basel). 2017 Dec 21;5(1):1. doi: 10.3390/bioengineering5010001.

Impact of Glycerol as Carbon Source onto Specific Sugar and Inducer Uptake Rates 
and Inclusion Body Productivity in E. coli BL21(DE3).

Kopp J(1), Slouka C(2), Ulonska S(3), Kager J(4), Fricke J(5), Spadiut O(6), 
Herwig C(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Biological 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
julian.kopp@tuwien.ac.at.
(2)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Biological 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
christoph.slouka@tuwien.ac.at.
(3)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical, 
Environmental and Biological Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 
Vienna, Austria. sophia.ulonska@tuwien.ac.at.
(4)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical, 
Environmental and Biological Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 
Vienna, Austria. julian.kager@tuwien.ac.at.
(5)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Biological 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
fricke_jens@gmx.de.
(6)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical, 
Environmental and Biological Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 
Vienna, Austria. oliver.spadiut@tuwien.ac.at.
(7)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical, Environmental and Biological 
Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 Vienna, Austria. 
christoph.herwig@tuwien.ac.at.
(8)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical, 
Environmental and Biological Engineering, Vienna University of Technology, 1060 
Vienna, Austria. christoph.herwig@tuwien.ac.at.

The Gram-negative bacterium E. coli is the host of choice for a multitude of 
used recombinant proteins. Generally, cultivation is easy, media are cheap, and 
a high product titer can be obtained. However, harsh induction procedures using 
isopropyl β-d-1 thiogalactopyranoside as inducer are often referred to cause 
stress reactions, leading to a phenomenon known as "metabolic" or "product 
burden". These high expressions of recombinant proteins mainly result in 
decreased growth rates and cell lysis at elevated induction times. Therefore, 
approaches tend to use "soft" or "tunable" induction with lactose and reduce the 
stress level of the production host. The usage of glucose as energy source in 
combination with lactose as induction reagent causes catabolite repression 
effects on lactose uptake kinetics and as a consequence reduced product titer. 
Glycerol-as an alternative carbon source-is already known to have positive 
impact on product formation when coupled with glucose and lactose in 
auto-induction systems, and has been referred to show no signs of repression 
when cultivated with lactose concomitantly. In recent research activities, the 
impact of different products on the lactose uptake using glucose as carbon 
source was highlighted, and a mechanistic model for glucose-lactose induction 
systems showed correlations between specific substrate uptake rate for glucose 
or glycerol (qs,C) and the maximum specific lactose uptake rate (qs,lac,max). In 
this study, we investigated the mechanistic of glycerol uptake when using the 
inducer lactose. We were able to show that a product-producing strain has 
significantly higher inducer uptake rates when being compared to a non-producer 
strain. Additionally, it was shown that glycerol has beneficial effects on 
viability of cells and on productivity of the recombinant protein compared to 
glucose.

DOI: 10.3390/bioengineering5010001
PMCID: PMC5874867
PMID: 29267215

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


214. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2015 Jun;176(4):1029-43. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-015-1627-x. Epub 2015 Apr 25.

Expression and Characterization of the Extracellular Domain of Human HER2 from 
Escherichia Coli, and Production of Polyclonal Antibodies Against the 
Recombinant Proteins.

Sun Y(1), Feng X, Qu J, Han W, Liu Z, Li X, Zou M, Zhen Y, Zhu J.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, Liaoning Province, 
China.

Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a member of the epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) family. In this study, the whole extracellular 
domain gene of HER2 was amplified by RT-PCR from human breast cancer cell line 
SK-BR-3. The genes of membrane-distal region (A) and membrane proximal region 
(B) of HER2 extracellular domain were amplified from the cloned template, and 
then inserted into the expression vector pET-28a and pET-30a, respectively. The 
recombinant expression vectors were transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) 
cells and induced by isopropyl-b-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) for expression 
of proteins His-A and His-B. The expressed proteins were detected by sodium 
dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and western blot. 
The optimization of culture conditions led us to accomplish the recombinant 
protein induction with 1.0 mM IPTG at 37 °C for 8 h, and both proteins were 
expressed in the insoluble form. Both proteins were purified under the 
denaturing condition using Ni-NTA sepharose column. Balb/c mice were immunized 
with the purified proteins and then effectively produced polyclonal antibodies, 
which reached to a relatively high titer by ELISA testing and had good 
specificity by western blot detection. The HER2 ECD proteins His-A and His-B 
could be expressed in E. coli and were suitable for production of high titer 
antibodies against HER2 ECD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-015-1627-x
PMID: 25906688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Anal Biochem. 2012 Oct 15;429(2):132-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2012.07.016. Epub 2012 
Jul 22.

A strategy for the expression of recombinant proteins traditionally hard to 
purify.

Frank EG(1), McDonald JP, Karata K, Huston D, Woodgate R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genomic Integrity, National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

We have developed a series of plasmid vectors for the soluble expression and 
subsequent purification of recombinant proteins that have historically proven to 
be extremely difficult to purify from Escherichia coli. Instead of dramatically 
overproducing the target protein, it is expressed at a low basal level that 
facilitates the correct folding of the recombinant protein and increases its 
solubility. Highly active recombinant proteins that are traditionally difficult 
to purify are readily purified using standard affinity tags and conventional 
chromatography. To demonstrate the utility of these vectors, we have expressed 
and purified full-length human DNA polymerases η, ι, and ν from E. coli and show 
that the purified DNA polymerases are catalytically active in vitro.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2012.07.016
PMCID: PMC3575598
PMID: 22828411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Microb Cell Fact. 2016 Nov 10;15(1):189. doi: 10.1186/s12934-016-0590-8.

The effect of protein acetylation on the formation and processing of inclusion 
bodies and endogenous protein aggregates in Escherichia coli cells.

Kuczyńska-Wiśnik D(1), Moruno-Algara M(1), Stojowska-Swędrzyńska K(1), Laskowska 
E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology, 
University of Gdansk, Wita Stwosza 59, 80-308, Gdansk, Poland.
(2)Department of General and Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology, 
University of Gdansk, Wita Stwosza 59, 80-308, Gdansk, Poland. 
ewa.laskowska@biol.ug.edu.pl.

BACKGROUND: Acetylation of lysine residues is a reversible post-translational 
modification conserved from bacteria to humans. Several recent studies have 
revealed hundreds of lysine-acetylated proteins in various bacteria; however, 
the physiological role of these modifications remains largely unknown. Since 
lysine acetylation changes the size and charge of proteins and thereby may 
affect their conformation, we assumed that lysine acetylation can stimulate 
aggregation of proteins, especially for overproduced recombinant proteins that 
form inclusion bodies.
RESULTS: To verify this assumption, we used Escherichia coli strains that 
overproduce aggregation-prone VP1GFP protein. We found that in ΔackA-pta cells, 
which display diminished protein acetylation, inclusion bodies were formed with 
a delay and processed faster than in the wild-type cells. Moreover, in ΔackA-pta 
cells, inclusion bodies exhibited significantly increased specific GFP 
fluorescence. In CobB deacetylase-deficient cells, in which protein acetylation 
was enhanced, the formation of inclusion bodies was increased and their 
processing was significantly inhibited. Similar results were obtained with 
regard to endogenous protein aggregates formed during the late stationary phase 
in ΔackA-pta and ΔcobB cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Our studies revealed that protein acetylation affected the 
aggregation of endogenous E. coli proteins and the yield, solubility, and 
biological activity of a model recombinant protein. In general, decreased lysine 
acetylation inhibited the formation of protein aggregates, whereas increased 
lysine acetylation stabilized protein aggregates. These findings should be 
considered during the designing of efficient strategies for the production of 
recombinant proteins in E. coli cells.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-016-0590-8
PMCID: PMC5105262
PMID: 27832787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Acta Virol. 2014;58(1):61-8. doi: 10.4149/av_2014_01_61.

Expression of recombinant proteins in insect cells by their direct infection 
with Escherichia coli transformed with baculovirus bacmids.

Yu X, Hua J, Hu G, Zhang J, Ma L.

The baculovirus-insect cell expression system (BES), one of the most popular 
systems for expression of eukaryotic proteins, was known to have drawbacks such 
as laborious manipulation of large-size baculovirus bacmids and the transfection 
procedure. These problems could be eliminated by direct infection of eukaryotic 
cells with nonpathogenic bacteria harbouring the respective gene - bactofection. 
However, it was unknown whether this system could be applied to insect cells. 
Therefore, in this study, the possibility of delivery of enhanced green 
fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene as a marker into the insect cell lines Sf9 and 
BmN-SWU1 using the above-mentioned approach with the Bac-to-Bac system was 
investigated. Using a simple co-incubation of Escherichia coli strains 
containing recombinant baculovirus bacmids with the EGFP gene and insect cells, 
it was possible to demonstrate the EGFP expression in these cells and to obtain 
high-titer recombinant baculoviral stocks. Furthermore, BmN-SWU1 cells proved 
more susceptible to the used E. coli strains than Sf9 cells. However, the 
co-expression of invasin and listeriolysin-O, known to enhance the E. 
coli-mediated gene delivery to mammalian cells, with EGFP, had no effect on 
insect cells. Summing up, this study proved that a heterologous gene can be 
efficiently delivered and expressed in insect cells by their simple incubation 
with non-pathogenic E. coli strains harboring recombinant baculovirus bacmids 
with the respective gene.

DOI: 10.4149/av_2014_01_61
PMID: 24717030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2009 Sep;25(9):1409-16.

[Induced expression of Arabidopsis thaliana WUSCHEL in Escherichia coli, 
affinity protein purification and polyclonal antibody preparation].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Z(1), Dai R, Zhang J, Chen S, Zhang W, Ma H.

Author information:
(1)College of Agriculture and Biotechnology, China Agricultural University, 
Beijing 100193, China.

We constructed a His-tagged prokaryotic expression vector of WUSCHEL gene of 
Arabidopsis thaliana, pET-31b(+)-WUS-His(6). The induction condition of the 
fusion protein expression in Escherichia coli was optimized. After purified by 
affinity chromatography, the recombinant WUS protein was resolved by 
renaturation of gradient urea dialysis, then used as antigen to immune rabbit to 
prepare polyclonal antibody. The rabbit anti-WUS antibody titer and specificity 
were analyzed and confirmed by agarose immunodiffusion testing; the antiserum 
sensitivity was assayed by dot blot and Western blotting. The results showed 
that the A. thaliana WUS prokaryotic expression vector was successfully 
constructed, and the optimized protein expression induction condition in E. coli 
was 0.5 mmol/L IPTG (isopropy-beta-D-thiogalactoside) at 28 degrees C for 10 
hours. The purity of the affinity purified protein was higher than 96%, and the 
prepared polyclonal antibody was with high specificity and sensitivity, it was 
able to detect protein antigen at ng level.

PMID: 19938486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. J Biosci Bioeng. 2015 Aug;120(2):199-204. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2014.12.023. 
Epub 2015 Jan 30.

Dual synthetic pathway for 3-hydroxypropionic acid production in engineered 
Escherichia coli.

Honjo H(1), Tsuruno K(1), Tatsuke T(1), Sato M(1), Hanai T(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Bioinformatics, Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences, 
Kyushu University, 804 Westwing, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, 
Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Bioinformatics, Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences, 
Kyushu University, 804 Westwing, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, 
Japan. Electronic address: taizo@brs.kyushu-u.ac.jp.

3-Hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) is an important platform C3 chemical; production 
of 3-HP in recombinant Escherichia coli by synthetic pathways has been the focus 
of a lot of research. When glycerol is used as a substrate to produce 3-HP in E. 
coli, only the ALDH pathway (employing aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) for 
conversion of 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde (3-HPA) into 3-HP) has been utilized as a 
synthetic pathway. However, several bacteria (including Klebsiella pneumoniae) 
are known to have the ability to produce 3-HP by the Pdu pathway (employing the 
PduP, PduL, and PduW enzymes). Here, we report the production of 3-HP in E. coli 
by using the Pdu pathway from K. pneumoniae as a synthetic pathway. Moreover, a 
strain harboring a dual synthetic pathways (ALDH and Pdu) exhibited a 70% 
increase in 3-HP titer compared to one harboring the ALDH pathway alone (56.1 ± 
0.736 mM and 33.1 ± 0.920 mM, respectively). To our knowledge, this is the first 
report of 3-HP production by E. coli harboring the Pdu pathway, with the dual 
synthetic pathway showing the highest yield ever reported by batch culture 
[54.1% (mol/mol)].

Copyright © 2015 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2014.12.023
PMID: 25650075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2022 Jan;119(1):315-320. doi: 10.1002/bit.27956. Epub 2021 
Oct 16.

Engineering Escherichia coli for anaerobic alkane activation: Biosynthesis of 
(1-methylalkyl)succinates.

Wang Y(1), Nguyen N(1), Lee SH(2)(3), Wang Q(4), May JA(4), Gonzalez R(2), 
Cirino PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of Houston, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical, Biological, and Materials Engineering, University of 
South Florida, Tampa, Florida, USA.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Rice University, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Houston, Houston, Texas, USA.

In anoxic environments, microbial activation of alkanes for subsequent 
metabolism occurs most commonly through the addition of fumarate to a 
subterminal carbon, producing an alkylsuccinate. Alkylsuccinate synthases are 
complex, multi-subunit enzymes that utilize a catalytic glycyl radical and 
require a partner, activating enzyme for hydrogen abstraction. While many genes 
encoding putative alkylsuccinate synthases have been identified, primarily from 
nitrate- and sulfate-reducing bacteria, few have been characterized and none 
have been reported to be functionally expressed in a heterologous host. Here, we 
describe the functional expression of the (1-methylalkyl)succinate synthase 
(Mas) system from Azoarcus sp. strain HxN1 in recombinant Escherichia coli. Mass 
spectrometry confirms anaerobic biosynthesis of the expected products of 
fumarate addition to hexane, butane, and propane. Maximum production of 
(1-methylpentyl)succinate is observed when masC, masD, masE, masB, and masG are 
all present on the expression plasmid; omitting masC reduces production by 66% 
while omitting any other gene eliminates production. Meanwhile, deleting iscR 
(encoding the repressor of the E. coli iron-sulfur cluster operon) improves 
product titer, as does performing the biotransformation at reduced temperature 
(18°C), both suggesting alkylsuccinate biosynthesis is largely limited by 
functional expression of this enzyme system.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27956
PMID: 34633065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J Toxicol Sci. 2010 Feb;35(1):9-19. doi: 10.2131/jts.35.9.

Production and characterization of a recombinant chimeric antigen consisting 
botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A, B and E binding subdomains.

Ebrahimi F(1), Rasaee MJ, Mousavi SL, Babaeipour V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Medical Sciences Faculty, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, I.R. Iran.

Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are potent toxicant proteins composed of a heavy 
chain (100 kDa) and a light chain (50 kDa) of seven (A-G) serotypes that is 
responsible for botulism syndrome. In this study, polypeptides from C-terminal 
heavy chain of BoNTs serotypes A, B and E to the length of 54, 45 and 48 amino 
acid respectively were selected, linked together using a hydrophobic linker and 
expressed in E. coli. The expression efficiency of the chimeric protein was 
found to be 51%. The chimeric protein was produced in the form of inclusion body 
(IB) both at two studied temperatures, 30 degrees C and 37 degrees C. This IB 
was extracted by ultracentrifugation and followed for chimeric protein 
solubilization and purification using of ultrafiltration and preparative 
electrophoresis. The purified chimeric protein was characterized using blotting 
and ELISA. To evaluate the protection ability of this chimeric antigen against 
their active toxins, it was injected to mice and the antibody titer as well as 
the extent of protectivity were determined. Mice given three injections (10 
microg/mice) of the antigen were protected against an intra-peritoneal 
administration of 10 LD(50 )of serotypes A and E, but 100 LD(50) of serotype B. 
We conclude that a significant correlation exists between the antigenic 
characteristics and protection capability of the chimeric protein prepared in 
this study.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.35.9
PMID: 20118620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1586:155-180. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6887-9_10.

A Strategy for Production of Correctly Folded Disulfide-Rich Peptides in the 
Periplasm of E. coli.

Saez NJ(1), Cristofori-Armstrong B(2), Anangi R(2), King GF(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, 306 Carmody 
Road, St. Lucia, QLD, 4067, Australia. n.saez@imb.uq.edu.au.
(2)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, 306 Carmody 
Road, St. Lucia, QLD, 4067, Australia.
(3)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, 306 Carmody 
Road, St. Lucia, QLD, 4067, Australia. glenn.king@imb.uq.edu.au.

Recombinant expression of disulfide-reticulated peptides and proteins is often 
challenging. We describe a method that exploits the periplasmic disulfide-bond 
forming machinery of Escherichia coli and combines this with a cleavable, 
solubility-enhancing fusion tag to obtain higher yields of correctly folded 
target protein than is achievable via cytoplasmic expression. The protocols 
provided herein cover all aspects of this approach, from vector construction and 
transformation to purification of the cleaved target protein and subsequent 
quality control.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6887-9_10
PMID: 28470604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2015 Mar-Apr;62(2):218-25. doi: 10.1002/bab.1235. Epub 
2015 Jan 28.

Efficient expression of a soluble lipid transfer protein (LTP) of Platanus 
orientalis using short peptide tags and structural comparison with the natural 
form.

Salari F(1), Vahedi F, Chamani J, Varasteh A, Ketabdar H, Sankian M.

Author information:
(1)Immunobiochemistry Lab, Immunology Research Center, School of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

Successful recombinant allergen-based immunotherapy has drawn a great deal of 
attention to use recombinant allergens for new therapeutic and/or diagnostic 
strategies. The Escherichia coli expression system is frequently used to produce 
recombinant allergens; however, protein expression in E. coli often results in 
inclusion bodies. Here, we focused on the expression of two recombinant soluble 
forms of Pla or 3 using solubility-enhancing peptide tags, human immune 
deficiency virus type 1 transactivator of transcription core domain and 
poly-arginine-lysine: rTAT-Pla or 3 and rPoly-Arg-Lys-Pla or 3. Structural 
characteristics and IgE reactivity of purified recombinant proteins were 
compared with natural Pla or 3 (nPla or 3) isolated from Platanus orientalis 
using circular dichroism spectra, fluorescence spectroscopy, and immunoblotting. 
Likewise, intrinsic viscosity and Stokes radius of the natural and recombinant 
Pla or 3 allergens were determined to analyze structural compactness in aqueous 
media. The results indicate high-level solubility and efficient expression of 
the fusion proteins (rTAT-Pla or 3 and rPoly-Arg-Lys-Pla or 3) compared with the 
wild-type recombinant. Furthermore, the similar structural characteristics and 
IgE-binding activities of the fusion proteins to nPla or 3 provide a promising 
tool for allergy diagnosis and treatment.

© 2014 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.1235
PMID: 24750344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Apr;120:99-105. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.12.015. Epub 
2015 Dec 25.

Improving the soluble expression and purification of recombinant human stem cell 
factor (SCF) in endotoxin-free Escherichia coli by disulfide shuffling with 
persulfide.

Ueda T(1), Akuta T(2), Kikuchi-Ueda T(1), Imaizumi K(3), Ono Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Teikyo University School of 
Medicine, 2-11-1 Kaga, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Teikyo University School of 
Medicine, 2-11-1 Kaga, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan; Kyokuto 
Pharmaceutical Industrial Co. Ltd., 7-8, Nihonbashi Kobunacho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 
103-0024, Japan. Electronic address: t.akuta@kyokutoseiyaku.co.jp.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Teikyo University School of 
Medicine, 2-11-1 Kaga, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan; Kyokuto 
Pharmaceutical Industrial Co. Ltd., 7-8, Nihonbashi Kobunacho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 
103-0024, Japan.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Teikyo University School of 
Medicine, 2-11-1 Kaga, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan. Electronic address: 
onoy@med.teikyo-u.ac.jp.

We here present a new method for the expression and purification of recombinant 
human stem cell factor (rhSCF(164)) in endotoxin-free ClearColi(®) BL21(DE3) 
cells harboring codon-optimized Profinity eXact™-tagged hSCF cDNA. Previously, 
we demonstrated that co-expression with thioredoxin increased the solubility of 
rhSCF in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and addition of l-arginine enhanced 
chromatography performance by removing the endotoxin-masked surface of rhSCF. 
Initially, we tried to express rhSCF in an endotoxin-free strain using a 
thioredoxin co-expression system, which resulted in significantly lower 
expression, possibly due to the stress imposed by overexpressed thioredoxin or 
antibiotics susceptibility. Therefore, we developed a new expression system 
without thioredoxin. External redox coupling was tested using persulfides such 
as glutathione persulfide or cysteine persulfide for the in vivo-folding of hSCF 
in the cytoplasm. Persulfides improved the protein solubility by accelerating 
disulfide-exchange reactions for incorrectdisulfides during folding in E. coli. 
Furthermore, the persulfides enhanced the expression level, likely due to 
upregulation of the enzymatic activity of T7 RNA polymerase. The recombinant 
protein was purified via affinity chromatography followed by cleavage with 
sodium fluoride, resulting in complete proteolytic removal of the N-terminal 
tag. The endotoxin-free fusion protein from ClearColi(®) BL21(DE3) could bind to 
the resin in the standard protocol using sodium phosphate (pH 7.2). Furthermore, 
purified rhSCF enhanced the proliferation and maturation of the human mast cell 
line LAD2. Thus, we conclude that use of the protein expression system employing 
E. coli by disulfide shuffling with persulfide addition could be a very useful 
method for efficient protein production.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.12.015
PMID: 26724416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Tanaffos. 2011;10(4):23-30.

Production and Purification of Mycolyl Transferase B of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis.

Aghababa H(1), Mobarez AM(1), Behmanesh M(2), Khoramabadi N(1), Mobarhan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Antigen 85 complex of Mycobacterium tuberculosis includes three 
immunogenic proteins which are TB vaccine candidates of great importance. As 
they are very hard to be achieved in natural form, recombinant production of 
them fuels immunological experiments. Production of such apolar mycobacterial 
proteins located in the cell wall faces substantial challenges mainly regarding 
their solubility. This study reports the production of soluble recombinant Ag85B 
with an efficient yield.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ag85B gene was cloned in pJET1.2 and subsequently in 
pET32a (+). Both recombinant plasmids were sequenced. Expression of the 
recombinant protein was induced with 1mM IPTG. Recombinant Ag85B was purified 
through dissolving inclusions in 8M urea buffer, absorbing to Ni-NTA resins, 
washing by buffers with decreasing urea concentrations and finally eluted in 
imidazole. Western blot analysis was performed using anti-6His tag antibody, 
rabbit anti- M. tuberculosis polyclonal antibody and serum of hospitalized TB 
patients.
RESULTS: Ag85B gene was successfully cloned in both plasmid vectors. The 
recombinant Ag85B was expressed in E. coli host and purified with significant 
yield.
CONCLUSION: Western blot results along with those of sequencing ensured accurate 
production of recombinant Ag85B and retaining of its antigenic structure.

PMCID: PMC4153168
PMID: 25191384


226. J Biotechnol. 2015 Nov 20;214:95-102. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.09.016. Epub 
2015 Sep 21.

Metabolic engineering of the Stevia rebaudiana ent-kaurene biosynthetic pathway 
in recombinant Escherichia coli.

Kong MK(1), Kang HJ(1), Kim JH(1), Oh SH(1), Lee PC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Science and Technology, Ajou University, 
Woncheon-dong, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon 443-749, South Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular Science and Technology, Ajou University, 
Woncheon-dong, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon 443-749, South Korea. Electronic address: 
pclee@ajou.ac.kr.

The ent-kaurene is a dedicated precursor pool and is responsible for 
synthesizing natural sweeteners such as steviol glycosides. In this study, to 
produce ent-kaurene in Escherichia coli, we modularly constructed and expressed 
two ent-kaurene genes encoding ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase (CPPS) and 
ent-kaurene synthase (KS) from Stevia rebaudiana known as a typical plant 
producing steviol glycoside. The CPPS and KS from S. rebaudiana were 
functionally expressed in a heterologous host E. coli. Furthermore, in order to 
enhance ent-kaurene production in E. coli, six geranylgeranyl diphosphate 
synthases (GGPPS) from various microorganisms and eight strains of E. coli as 
host were compared by measuring ent-kaurene production. The highest ent-kaurene 
production of approximately 41.1mg/L was demonstrated in E. coli strain MG1655 
co-expressing synthetic CPPS-KS module and GGPPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. 
The ent-kaurene production was further increased up to 179.6 mg/L by 
overexpression of the three key enzymes for isoprenoid precursor, 
1-deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate synthase (DXS), farnesyl diphosphate synthase (IspA) 
and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase (IDI) from E. coli. Finally, the highest 
titer of ent-kaurene (578 mg/L) with a specific yield of ent-kaurene of 
143.5mg/g dry cell weight was obtained by culturing E. coli strain MG1655 
co-expressing the ent-kaurene module, DXS, IDI and IspA in 1L bioreactor 
containing 20 g/L glycerol.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.09.016
PMID: 26392384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 7;10(12):e0143598. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143598. 
eCollection 2015.

Recombinant Passenger Proteins Can Be Conveniently Purified by One-Step Affinity 
Chromatography.

Wang HZ(1)(2), Chu ZZ(1)(2), Chen CC(1)(2), Cao AC(3)(4), Tong X(1)(2), Ouyang 
CB(3)(4), Yuan QH(1)(2), Wang MN(1)(2), Wu ZK(1)(2), Wang HH(1)(2), Wang 
SB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 
541642, P. R. China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Protein Function and Regulation in 
Agricultural Organisms, Guangzhou, 541642, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Pesticides, Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Ministry of Agriculture, Beijing, 100193, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Beijing, 
100193, China.

Fusion tag is one of the best available tools to date for enhancement of the 
solubility or improvement of the expression level of recombinant proteins in 
Escherichia coli. Typically, two consecutive affinity purification steps are 
often necessitated for the purification of passenger proteins. As a fusion tag, 
acyl carrier protein (ACP) could greatly increase the soluble expression level 
of Glucokinase (GlcK), α-Amylase (Amy) and GFP. When fusion protein 
ACP-G2-GlcK-Histag and ACP-G2-Amy-Histag, in which a protease TEV recognition 
site was inserted between the fusion tag and passenger protein, were coexpressed 
with protease TEV respectively in E. coli, the efficient intracellular 
processing of fusion proteins was achieved. The resulting passenger protein 
GlcK-Histag and Amy-Histag accumulated predominantly in a soluble form, and 
could be conveniently purified by one-step Ni-chelating chromatography. However, 
the fusion protein ACP-GFP-Histag was processed incompletely by the protease TEV 
coexpressed in vivo, and a large portion of the resulting target protein 
GFP-Histag aggregated in insoluble form, indicating that the intracellular 
processing may affect the solubility of cleaved passenger protein. In this 
context, the soluble fusion protein ACP-GFP-Histag, contained in the supernatant 
of E. coli cell lysate, was directly subjected to cleavage in vitro by mixing it 
with the clarified cell lysate of E. coli overexpressing protease TEV. 
Consequently, the resulting target protein GFP-Histag could accumulate 
predominantly in a soluble form, and be purified conveniently by one-step 
Ni-chelating chromatography. The approaches presented here greatly simplify the 
purification process of passenger proteins, and eliminate the use of large 
amounts of pure site-specific proteases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143598
PMCID: PMC4671538
PMID: 26641240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


228. Protein Expr Purif. 2000 Mar;18(2):182-92. doi: 10.1006/prep.1999.1179.

Optimization of inclusion body solubilization and renaturation of recombinant 
human growth hormone from Escherichia coli.

Patra AK(1), Mukhopadhyay R, Mukhija R, Krishnan A, Garg LC, Panda AK.

Author information:
(1)Product Development Cell, Gene Regulation Laboratory, National Institute of 
Immunology, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, New Delhi, 110067, India.

Recombinant human growth hormone (r-hGH) was expressed in Escherichia coli as 
inclusion bodies. In 10 h of fed-batch fermentation, 1.6 g/L of r-hGH was 
produced at a cell concentration of 25 g dry cell weight/L. Inclusion bodies 
from the cells were isolated and purified to homogeneity. Various buffers with 
and without reducing agents were used to solubilize r-hGH from the inclusion 
bodies and the extent of solubility was compared with that of 8 M urea as well 
as 6 M Gdn-HCl. Hydrophobic interactions as well as ionic interactions were 
found to be the dominant forces responsible for the formation of r-hGH inclusion 
bodies during its high-level expression in E. coli. Complete solubilization of 
r-hGH inclusion bodies was observed in 100 mM Tris buffer at pH 12.5 containing 
2 M urea. Solubilization of r-hGH inclusion bodies in the presence of low 
concentrations of urea helped in retaining the existing native-like secondary 
structures of r-hGH, thus improving the yield of bioactive protein during 
refolding. Solubilized r-hGH in Tris buffer containing 2 M urea was found to be 
less susceptible to aggregation during buffer exchange and thus was refolded by 
simple dilution. The r-hGH was purified by use of DEAE-Sepharose ion-exchange 
chromatography and the pure monomeric r-hGH was finally obtained by using 
size-exclusion chromatography. The overall yield of the purified monomeric r-hGH 
was approximately 50% of the initial inclusion body proteins and was found to be 
biologically active in promoting growth of rat Nb2 lymphoma cell lines.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/prep.1999.1179
PMID: 10686149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Biotechniques. 2008 Jan;44(1):101-6. doi: 10.2144/000112632.

A comparison of inoculation methods to simplify recombinant protein expression 
screening in Escherichia coli.

Busso D(1), Stierlé M, Thierry JC, Moras D.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Génetique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire/Centre 
National de Recherche Scientifique/Institut National de la Santé de la Recherche 
Médicale, Université Louis Pasteur, Illkirch, France. djbusso@igbmc.u-strasbg.fr

In the past five years, Structural Genomics (SG) initiatives have established an 
automated pipeline for protein production in Escherichia coli to rapidly screen 
various conditions, resulting in soluble expression of recombinant proteins to 
aid in carrying out structural studies. However, some steps of the procedure are 
still extensive and require manual handling. Here, we present a comparative 
study of one step of the process, E. coli cultivation, using a set of 12 
expression vectors encoding for fusion proteins of seven independent target 
proteins. First, we show that performing E. coli growth in auto-inducible medium 
(ZYM-5052) results in a comparable protein expression/solubility profile to that 
obtained when growing cells in classical Luria-Bertani (LB) medium. Second, we 
show that the transformation mix can be used directly to inoculate a culture, 
saving time and circumventing the error-prone step of colony picking, without 
impairing cell growth and the protein expression/solubility profile. Thus, we 
show that a basic, but nevertheless essential, step of a protein production 
pipeline, E. coli cultivation, can be simplified to a single event that is fully 
compatible with complete automation.

DOI: 10.2144/000112632
PMID: 18254387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2015 May;112(5):957-64. doi: 10.1002/bit.25505. Epub 2015 Jan 
2.

A simple and low-cost platform technology for producing pexiganan antimicrobial 
peptide in E. coli.

Zhao CX(1), Dwyer MD, Yu AL, Wu Y, Fang S, Middelberg AP.

Author information:
(1)The University of Queensland, Australian Institute for Bioengineering and 
Nanotechnology, St. Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia.

Antimicrobial peptides, as a new class of antibiotics, have generated tremendous 
interest as potential alternatives to classical antibiotics. However, the 
large-scale production of antimicrobial peptides remains a significant 
challenge. This paper reports a simple and low-cost chromatography-free platform 
technology for producing antimicrobial peptides in Escherichia coli (E. coli). A 
fusion protein comprising a variant of the helical biosurfactant protein DAMP4 
and the known antimicrobial peptide pexiganan is designed by joining the two 
polypeptides, at the DNA level, via an acid-sensitive cleavage site. The 
resulting DAMP4(var)-pexiganan fusion protein expresses at high level and 
solubility in recombinant E. coli, and a simple heat-purification method was 
applied to disrupt cells and deliver high-purity DAMP4(var)-pexiganan protein. 
Simple acid cleavage successfully separated the DAMP4 variant protein and the 
antimicrobial peptide. Antimicrobial activity tests confirmed that the 
bio-produced antimicrobial peptide has the same antimicrobial activity as the 
equivalent product made by conventional chemical peptide synthesis. This simple 
and low-cost platform technology can be easily adapted to produce other valuable 
peptide products, and opens a new manufacturing approach for producing 
antimicrobial peptides at large scale using the tools and approaches of 
biochemical engineering.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25505
PMID: 25425208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Agric Food Chem. 2022 Feb 16;70(6):1962-1970. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c08010. 
Epub 2022 Feb 4.

Efficient Production of Lactobionic Acid Using Escherichia coli Capable of 
Synthesizing Pyrroloquinoline Quinone.

Han HJ(1), Oh YR(1), Han SW(1), Lee SS(1), Eom GT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Bio-based Chemistry Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Chemical 
Technology (KRICT), 406-30, Jongga-ro, Ulsan 44429, Republic of Korea.
(2)Advanced Materials and Chemical Engineering, University of Science and 
Technology (UST), Daejeon 34113, Republic of Korea.

Lactobionic acid (LBA) is an emerging chemical that has been widely utilized in 
food, cosmetic, and pharmaceutical industries. We sought to produce LBA using 
Escherichia coli. LBA can be produced from lactose in E. coli, which is innately 
unable to produce LBA, by coexpressing a heterologous quinoprotein glucose 
dehydrogenase (GDH) and a pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) synthesis gene cluster. 
Using a recombinant E. coli strain, we successfully produced LBA without 
additional supplementation of PQQ, and changing the type of heterologous GDH 
improved the LBA production titer and productivity. To further enhance LBA 
production, culture conditions, such as growth temperature and 
isopropyl-β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside concentration, were optimized. Using 
optimized culture conditions, batch fermentation of the recombinant E. coli 
strain was performed using a 5 L bioreactor. After fermentation, this strain 
produced an LBA titer of 209.3 g/L, a yield of 100%, and a productivity of 1.45 
g/L/h. To our best knowledge, this is the first study to produce LBA using 
heterologous GDH in an E. coli strain without any additional cofactors. Our 
results provide a simple method to produce LBA from lactose in a naturally 
non-LBA-producing bacterium and lay the groundwork for highly efficient LBA 
production in E. coli, which is one of the most versatile metabolite-producing 
bacterial hosts.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c08010
PMID: 35118861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Protein Expr Purif. 2022 Jan;189:105991. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105991. Epub 
2021 Oct 7.

A comparison between MBP- and NT* as N-terminal fusion partner for recombinant 
protein production in E. coli.

Raran-Kurussi S(1), Sharwanlal SB(2), Balasubramanian D(2), Mote KR(2).

Author information:
(1)Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Hyderabad, 36/P Gopanpally Village, 
Ranga Reddy District, Serilingampally, Hyderabad, 500046, Telangana, India. 
Electronic address: sreejithr@tifrh.res.in.
(2)Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Hyderabad, 36/P Gopanpally Village, 
Ranga Reddy District, Serilingampally, Hyderabad, 500046, Telangana, India.

Advances in structural biology have been fueled in part by developing techniques 
for large-scale heterologous expression and purification of proteins. 
Nevertheless, this step is still a bottleneck in biophysical studies of many 
proteins. Often, fusion proteins are used to increase expression levels, 
solubility, or both. Here, we compare a recently reported fusion tag, NT*, with 
Maltose Binding Protein (MBP), a well-known fusion tag and solubility enhancer. 
NT* shows high expression and solubility when used as an N-terminal fusion 
partner for several aggregation-prone peptides. Its efficacy in enhancing the 
solubility of aggregation-prone globular proteins has, however, not been tested. 
We find here that although the overall expression levels for NT* fusions are 
much higher than those for the MBP fusion, MBP was far superior for enhancing 
the solubility of the passenger protein. Nevertheless, the effective yield after 
purification from the soluble fraction of both MBP-fusion and NT*-fusion was 
comparable, mainly due to higher expression levels in NT*-fusion and a smaller 
fraction of the passenger protein net weight being locked in the fusion protein. 
We conclude that NT* is an excellent fusion tag to improve the overall 
expression of globular proteins but does not increase the passenger protein's 
solubility compared to MBP. Proteins that are partially soluble or can be 
refolded in-vitro will significantly benefit from N-terminal NT* fusions. MBP, 
however, still remains one of the very few options for an N-terminal fusion if 
the solubility of the protein after expression is critical for preserving its 
proper fold or activity.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105991
PMID: 34628000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2011 Aug;91(4):1203-13. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-011-3407-z. Epub 2011 Jun 23.

Simple defined autoinduction medium for high-level recombinant protein 
production using T7-based Escherichia coli expression systems.

Li Z(1), Kessler W, van den Heuvel J, Rinas U.

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research (SB), Braunschweig, Germany.

Protein production under the control of lac operon regulatory elements using 
autoinduction is based on diauxic growth of Escherichia coli on lactose after 
consumption of more preferred carbon substrates. A novel simple and 
cost-effective defined autoinduction medium using a mixture of glucose, 
glycerol, and lactose as carbon substrate and NH(4)(+) as sole nitrogen source 
without any supplementation of amino acids and vitamins was developed for 
T7-based E. coli expression systems. This medium was successfully employed in 
96-well microtiter plates, test tubes, shake flasks, and 15-L bioreactor 
cultivations for production of different types of proteins achieving an average 
yield of 500 mg L(-1) product. Cell-specific protein concentrations and 
solubility were similar as during conventional isopropyl 
β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside induction using Luria-Bertani broth. However, the 
final yield of target proteins was about four times higher, as a higher final 
biomass was achieved using this novel defined autoinduction broth.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-011-3407-z
PMID: 21698378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Malar J. 2006 Jun 25;5:52. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-5-52.

Prediction of solubility on recombinant expression of Plasmodium falciparum 
erythrocyte membrane protein 1 domains in Escherichia coli.

Ahuja S(1), Ahuja S, Chen Q, Wahlgren M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology (MTC), Karolinska 
Institutet, P, O, Box 280, Stockholm, S-17177, Sweden. sanjay.ahuja@mtc.ki.se

BACKGROUND: Cellular interactions elicited by Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte 
membrane protein antigen 1 (PfEMP1) are brought about by multiple DBL (Duffy 
binding like), CIDR (cysteine-rich interdomain region) and C2 domain types. 
Elucidation of the functional and structural characteristics of these domains is 
contingent on the abundant availability of recombinant protein in a soluble 
form. A priori prediction of PfEMP1 domains of the 3D7 genome strain, most 
likely to be expressed in the soluble form in Escherichia coli was computed and 
proven experimentally.
METHODS: A computational analysis correlating sequence-dependent features to 
likelihood for expression in soluble form was computed and predictions were 
validated by the colony filtration blot method for rapid identification of 
soluble protein expression in E. coli.
RESULTS: Solubility predictions for all constituent PfEMP1 domains in the 
decreasing order of their probability to be expressed in a soluble form (% mean 
solubility) are as follows: ATS (56.7%) > CIDR1alpha (46.8%) > CIDR2beta (42.9%) 
> DBL2-4gamma (31.7%) > DBL2beta + C2 (30.6%) > DBL1alpha (24.9%) > 
DBL2-7epsilon (23.1%) > DBL2-5delta (14.8%). The length of the domains does not 
correlate to their probability for successful expression in the soluble form. 
Immunoblot analysis probing for soluble protein confirmed the differential in 
solubility predictions.
CONCLUSION: The acidic terminal segment (ATS) and CIDR alpha/beta domain types 
are suitable for recombinant expression in E. coli while all DBL subtypes 
(alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon) are a poor choice for obtaining soluble 
protein on recombinant expression in E. coli. This study has relevance for 
researchers pursuing functional and structural studies on PfEMP1 domains.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-5-52
PMCID: PMC1523353
PMID: 16796764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Cell Biol Int. 2015 Jul;39(7):858-64. doi: 10.1002/cbin.10454. Epub 2015 Mar 15.

High-level expression and purification of soluble bioactive recombinant human 
heparin-binding epidermal growth factor in Escherichia coli.

Khalili M(1), Soleyman MR(1), Baazm M(2), Beyer C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Arak University of Medical 
Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Arak University of Medical 
Sciences, Arak, Iran.
(3)Institute of Neuroanatomy, Medical Clinic, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, 
Germany.

Heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (HB-EGF) is a member of highly conserved 
superfamily of proteins that has potential mitogenic activity and stimulates 
differentiation and migration of various cell types. Since HB-EGF has three 
intra-molecular disulfide bonds, a high expression pattern of active HB-EGF in 
an E. coli expression system was not successfully established. The aim of this 
study was to increase production of soluble bioactive recombinant human HB-EGF 
in E. coli by modifying growth conditions and codon optimization. The open 
reading frame codons of human HB-EGF were optimized to achieve high level 
expression in E. coli. The optimized codon was amplified, cloned into plasmid 
pET-32a, and transformed into E. coli BL21 for further expression. The 
cultivation parameters (temperature and inducer) were optimized to produce a 
high yield of soluble HB-EGF. The fusion protein was purified by 
Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) affinity chromatography. Amethylthiazole 
tetrazolium assay was used to evaluate the bioactivity of the produced 
recombinant protein. After codon optimization, the codon adaptation index (CAI) 
was increased from 0.255 in native gene to 0.829 using the optimized sequence. 
By lowering the temperature to 22°C and the inducer to 0.4 μM, we obtained 35% 
soluble expression of recombinant and biologically active human HB-EGF. Our data 
demonstrate that codon optimization increases the yield of HB-EGF in an E. coli 
expression system. Furthermore, the chosen modifications in cell culturing 
increase the solubility of recombinant human HB-EGF.

© 2015 International Federation for Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.10454
PMID: 25712700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Iran J Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2015 Dec;14(6):624-32.

High-Level Soluble Expression and One-step Purification of HTLV-I P19 Protein in 
Escherichia coli by Fusion Expression.

Mosadeghi P(1), Zarnagh HH(2), Mohammad-Zadeh M(2), Salehi Moghaddam M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Basic Science Faculty, Payam Noor University of 
Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Molecular and Cellular research Center, Sabzevar University of Medical 
Science, Sabzevar, Iran.

Expression of HTLV-I p19 protein in an Escherichia coli expression system always 
leads to the formation of inclusion body. Solubilisation and refolding of the 
inclusion bodies is complex, time consuming and difficult during large-scale 
preparation. This study aimed to express and purify a soluble form of 
recombinant HTLV-I p19 protein in an E. coli expression system. The synthetic 
DNA encoding the p19 was subcloned into a pGS21a vector along with a His-GST 
solubility/purification tag. The recombinant pGS21a-p19 vector was then 
transformed into chemically competent E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells, and expression 
of the recombinant His-GST-p19 protein was induced by IPTG. Expression and 
distribution of the His-GST-p19 protein in soluble and insoluble fractions were 
evaluated using SDS-PAGE. Antigenicity of the His-GST-p19 protein was evaluated 
using ELISA after purifying the protein using Ni-NTA affinity chromatography, 
then compared to the results of synthetic immunodominant p19 peptide ELISA. The 
fusion His-GST-p19 protein accounted for 30% of the total cellular proteins. The 
SDS-PAGE results indicated that approximately 50% of the expressed His-GST-p19 
proteins were soluble and accounted for 50% of the total soluble proteins. ELISA 
showed that the His-GST tag did not impair the antigenicity of the p19 protein 
and that the fusion protein reacted with HTLV-I antibodies in a 
concentration-dependent manner. The results of His-GST-p19 ELISA indicated that 
specificity of p19 reactivity was compatible to the results of p19 peptide 
ELISA. Combination of key strategies for the soluble expresion of proteins, like 
fusion with solubility/purification tags, low IPTG concentration and induction 
at low temperature, provide an efficient and facile platform for producing 
soluble  HTLV-I p19 protein.

PMID: 26725560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Biotechniques. 2008 May;44(6):787-96. doi: 10.2144/000112728.

Purification of inclusion body-forming peptides and proteins in soluble form by 
fusion to Escherichia coli thermostable proteins.

Thapa A(1), Shahnawaz M, Karki P, Raj Dahal G, Sharoar MG, Yub Shin S, Sup Lee 
J, Cho B, Park IS.

Author information:
(1)Chosun University, Gwanju, Republic of Korea.

Proteins and peptides expressed in the prokaryotic system often form inclusion 
bodies. Solubilization and refolding procedures can be used for their recovery, 
but this process remains difficult. One strategy for improving the solubility of 
a protein of interest is to fuse it to a highly soluble protein. To select a 
suitable fusion partner capable of solubilizing the aggregation-prone (inclusion 
body-forming) proteins and peptides, Escherichia coli thermostable proteins were 
identified and tested. Among them, trigger factor (TF) protein was selected 
because of its high expression and stability. Using an expression system based 
on fusion to TF, selected proteins and peptides that otherwise form inclusion 
bodies were expressed in soluble state and were purified like other soluble 
proteins. This system provides a convenient method for production of 
aggregation-prone proteins and peptides.

DOI: 10.2144/000112728
PMID: 18476832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 May;29(5):504-6.

[Clonning and expression of procalcitonin and preparation of its polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Tan Q(1), Tian W, Wang L, Peng W, Chen F.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Wuhan University, China. 53820789@qq.com

OBJECTIVE: To clone, express the procalcitonin (PCT) and prepare its polyclonal 
antibody.
METHODS: We designed 10 DNA primers according to the encoding sequence of human 
PCT gene from GenBank, amplified PCT gene by PCR and constructed the recombinant 
vector pGEX-KG-PCT. Then the fusion protein, PCT-GST, was expressed in E.coli 
and purified by affinity chromatography. The corresponding polyclonal antibody 
was produced in the New Zealand white rabbits immunized with the fusion protein, 
and its biological activity was detected by Western blotting. The specificity 
and titer of the polyclonal antibody was identified by agar gel immunodiffusion 
test.
RESULTS: We successfully obtained the full-length PCT gene and expressed the 
fusion PCT-GST in E.coli. SDS-PAGE showed that relative molecular mass (Mr;) was 
about 36 000. Agar gel immunodiffusion test revealed that the prepared 
polyclonal antibody could specially recognized PCT and its titer was 1:4.
CONCLUSION: The PCT is successfully cloned, expressed and purified. The high 
specific polyclonal antibody of PCT is prepared.

PMID: 23643271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2010 Mar;30(3):447-50.

[Expression, purification and identification of Abeta fusion protein with 
enhanced solubility].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu R(1), Zheng CD, Wang F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China. 
zhurui84@fimmu.com

OBJECTIVE: To economically obtain the Abeta peptide for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
research by expressing the Abeta peptide fused with the maltose binding protein 
(MBP) possessing high solubility in E.coli.
METHODS: The cDNA-coding sequence of Abeta peptide was modified by the addition 
of a BamH I site at the 5' end and a Hind III site at the 3' end using PCR. The 
modified sequence was ligated into the maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusion 
expression vector pMAL-c2 containing an thrombin cleavage site, which was 
transformed into competent E.coli DH5alpha cells. After identification of the 
single clones by PCR and DNA sequencing, the recombinant plasmid was transformed 
into E.coli TB1 and induced to express MBP-Abeta fusion protein. The expressed 
fusion protein was purified using amylose resin column and identified by 
SDS-PAGE and Western blotting.
RESULTS: The result of DNA sequencing verified the consistency between the 
inserted sequence and Abeta (1-42) sequence. SDS-PAGE electrophoresis showed 
that MBP-Abeta fusion protein was highly expressed in E.coli TB1, and Western 
blotting demonstrated that the purified fusion protein and the separated Abeta 
peptide could be recognized by specific anti-Abeta (22-35) antibody.
CONCLUSION: MBP-Abeta fusion protein highly expressed in E. coli TB1 cells with 
enhanced solubility and the separated Abeta peptide with good immunogenicity 
obtained may lend support to AD research.

PMID: 20335106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Jan;117:26-34. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.09.022. Epub 
2015 Sep 25.

Production of aggregation prone human interferon gamma and its mutant in highly 
soluble and biologically active form by SUMO fusion technology.

Tileva M(1), Krachmarova E(2), Ivanov I(3), Maskos K(4), Nacheva G(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology "Roumen Tsanev", Bulgarian Academy of 
Sciences, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address: milenatileva@bio21.bas.bg.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology "Roumen Tsanev", Bulgarian Academy of 
Sciences, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address: 
elenakrachmarova@bio21.bas.bg.
(3)Institute of Molecular Biology "Roumen Tsanev", Bulgarian Academy of 
Sciences, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address: iivanov@bio21.bas.bg.
(4)Proteros Biostructures, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany. Electronic address: 
maskos@proteros.de.
(5)Institute of Molecular Biology "Roumen Tsanev", Bulgarian Academy of 
Sciences, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address: genoveva@bio21.bas.bg.

The Escherichia coli expression system is a preferable choice for production of 
recombinant proteins. A disadvantage of this system is the target protein 
aggregation in "inclusion bodies" (IBs) that further requires solubilisation and 
refolding, which is crucial for the properties and the yield of the final 
product. In order to prevent aggregation, SUMO fusion tag technology has been 
successfully applied for expression of eukaryotic proteins, including human 
interferon gamma (hIFNγ) that was reported, however, with no satisfactory 
biological activity. We modified this methodology for expression and 
purification of both the wild type hIFNγ and an extremely prone to aggregation 
mutant hIFNγ-K88Q, whose recovery from IBs showed to be ineffective upon 
numerous conditions. By expression of the N-terminal His-SUMO fusion proteins in 
the E. coli strain BL21(DE3)pG-KJE8, co-expressing two chaperone systems, at 24 
°C a significant increase in solubility of both target proteins (1.5-fold for 
hIFNγ and 8-fold for K88Q) was achieved. Two-step chromatography (affinity and 
ion-exchange) with on-dialysis His-SUMO-tag cleavage was applied for protein 
purification that yielded 6.0-7.0mg/g wet biomass for both proteins with >95% 
purity and native N-termini. The optimised protocol led to increased yields from 
5.5 times for hIFNγ up to 100 times for K88Q in comparison to their isolation 
from IBs. Purified hIFNγ showed preserved thermal stability and 
antiproliferative activity corresponding to that of the native reference sample 
(3 × 10(7)IU/mg). The developed methodology represents an optimised procedure 
that can be successfully applied for large scale expression and purification of 
aggregation-prone proteins in soluble native form.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.09.022
PMID: 26407523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. J Appl Microbiol. 2017 Jul;123(1):134-144. doi: 10.1111/jam.13483. Epub 2017 Jun 
9.

Cytosolic expression of functional Fab fragments in Escherichia coli using a 
novel combination of dual SUMO expression cassette and EnBase(®) cultivation 
mode.

Rezaie F(1), Davami F(1), Mansouri K(2), Agha Amiri S(1), Fazel R(1), Mahdian 
R(3), Davoudi N(1), Enayati S(1), Azizi M(1), Khalaj V(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Biotechnology Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(3)Molecular Medicine Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.

AIMS: The Escherichia coli expression system is highly effective in producing 
recombinant proteins. However, there are some limitations in this system, 
especially in obtaining correctly folded forms of some complex proteins such as 
Fab fragments. To improve the solubility and folding quality of Fab fragments, 
we have examined the effect of simultaneous application of a SUMO fusion tag, 
EnBase® cultivation mode and a redox mutant strain in the E. coli expression 
system.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A bicistronic gene construct was designed to express an 
antivascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) Fab fragment as a model system. 
The construct contained a dual SUMO fusion gene fragment to encode SUMO-tagged 
heavy and light chains. While the expression of the construct in batch cultures 
of BL21 or SHuffle® transformants produced insoluble and unfolded products, the 
induction of the transformants in EnBase® medium resulted in soluble and 
correctly folded Fab fragment, reaching as high as 19% of the total protein in 
shuffle strain. The functional assays indicated that the biological activity of 
the target Fab is similar to the commercial anti-VEGF, Lucentis® .
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that the combination of SUMO fusion 
technology, EnBase® cultivation system and recruiting a redox mutant of E. coli 
can efficiently enhance the solubility and productivity of recombinant Fab 
fragments.
SIGNIFICANCE AND THE IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The presented strategy provides not 
only a novel method to produce soluble and active form of an anti-VEGF Fab but 
also may use in the efficient production of other antibody fragments.

© 2017 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.13483
PMID: 28482126


242. BMC Biotechnol. 2019 Feb 15;19(1):13. doi: 10.1186/s12896-019-0506-x.

A new prokaryotic expression vector for the expression of antimicrobial peptide 
abaecin using SUMO fusion tag.

Kim DS(1), Kim SW(1), Song JM(2), Kim SY(3), Kwon KC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Andong National University, Andong, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Global Medical Science, Health & Wellness College, Sungshin 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Andong National University, Andong, South 
Korea. kimsy@anu.ac.kr.
(4)MicroSynbiotiX Ltd, 11011 N Torrey Pines Rd Ste. #135, La Jolla, CA, 92037, 
USA. kwang-chul.kwon@microsynbiotix.com.

BACKGROUND: Despite the growing demand for antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) for 
clinical use as an alternative approach against antibiotic-resistant bacteria, 
the manufacture of AMPs relies on expensive, small-scale chemical methods. The 
small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) tag is industrially practical for 
increasing the yield of recombinant proteins by increasing solubility and 
preventing degradation in expression systems.
RESULTS: A new vector system, pKSEC1, was designed to produce AMPs, which can 
work in prokaryotic systems such as Escherichia coli and plant chloroplasts. 
6xHis was tagged to SUMO for purification of SUMO-fused AMPs. Abaecin, 
a 34-aa-long antimicrobial peptide from honeybees, was expressed in a fusion 
form to 6xHis-SUMO in a new vector system to evaluate the prokaryotic expression 
platform of the antimicrobial peptides. The fusion sequences were 
codon-optimized in three different combinations and expressed in E. coli. The 
combination of the native SUMO sequence with codon-optimized abaecin showed the 
highest expression level among the three combinations, and most of the expressed 
fusion proteins were detected in soluble fractions. Cleavage of the SUMO tag by 
sumoase produced a 29-aa-long abaecin derivative with a C-terminal deletion. 
However, this abaecin derivative still retained the binding sequence for its 
target protein, DnaK. Antibacterial activity of the 29-aa long abaecin was 
tested against Bacillus subtilis alone or in combination with cecropin B. The 
combined treatment of the abaecin derivative and cecropin B showed bacteriolytic 
activity 2 to 3 times greater than that of abaecin alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a SUMO-tag with an appropriate codon-optimization strategy 
could be an approach for the production of antimicrobial peptides in E.coli 
without affecting the viability of the host cell.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-019-0506-x
PMCID: PMC6377777
PMID: 30770741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


243. Acta Biochim Pol. 2018 Oct 31;65(4):521-534. doi: 10.18388/abp.2018_2351.

In silico analysis of different signal peptides to discover a panel of 
appropriate signal peptides for secretory production of Interferon-beta 1b in 
Escherichia coli.

Ghovvati S(1), Pezeshkian Z(2), Mirhoseini SZ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.

Signal peptides (SPs) are one of the most important factors for suitable 
secretion of the recombinant  heterologous proteins in Escherichia coli (E. 
coli). The objective of this study was to identify a panel of signal peptides 
(among the 90 biologically active SPs) required for the secretory production of 
interferon-beta 1b (IFN-beta 1b) recombinant protein into the periplasmic space 
of E. coli host. In the initial step, after predicting the accurate locations of 
the cleavage sites of signal peptides and their discrimination scores using 
SignalP 4.1 server, 31 SPs were eliminated from further analysis because their 
discrimination scores were less than 0.5 or their cleavage sites were 
inappropriately located. Therefore, only 59 SPs could be theoretically applied 
to secrete IFN-beta 1b into the periplasmic space of E. coli. The 
physico-chemical and the solubility properties, which are necessary parameters 
for selecting appropriate SPs, were predicted using ProtParam and SOLpro servers 
using the 59 remaining signal peptides. The final subcellular localization of 
IFN-beta 1b in combination with different SPs was predicted using ProtComB 
server. Consequently, according to the ranking of 59  confirmed SPs, the 
obtained results revealed that SPs Flagellar P-ring protein (flgI), Glucan 
1,3-beta-glucosidase I/II (EXG1) and outer membrane protein C (OmpC) were 
theoretically the most potent and desirable SPs for secretion of recombinant 
IFN-beta 1b into the periplasmic space of E. coli. For further studies in the 
future, the experimental investigations on the obtained results will be 
considered.

DOI: 10.18388/abp.2018_2351
PMID: 30378597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Jul;99:35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.03.008. Epub 2014 
Mar 26.

High-throughput cloning, expression and purification of glycoside hydrolases 
using Ligation-Independent Cloning (LIC).

Camilo CM(1), Polikarpov I(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Física e Informática, Instituto de Física de São Carlos, 
Universidade de São Paulo, Av. Trabalhador Sãocarlense, 400, 13566-590 São 
Carlos, SP, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Física e Informática, Instituto de Física de São Carlos, 
Universidade de São Paulo, Av. Trabalhador Sãocarlense, 400, 13566-590 São 
Carlos, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: ipolikarpov@ifsc.usp.br.

Recent advances in DNA sequencing techniques have led to an explosion in the 
amount of available genome sequencing data and this provided an inexhaustible 
source of uncharacterized glycoside hydrolases (GH) to be studied both 
structurally and enzymatically. Ligation-Independent Cloning (LIC), an 
interesting alternative to traditional, restriction enzyme-based cloning, and 
commercial recombinatorial cloning, was adopted and optimized successfully for a 
high throughput cloning, expression and purification pipeline. Using this 
platform, 130 genes encoding mainly uncharacterized glycoside hydrolases from 13 
different organisms were cloned and submitted to a semi-automated protein 
expression and solubility screening in Escherichia coli, resulting in 73 soluble 
targets. The high throughput approach proved to be a powerful tool for 
production of recombinant glycoside hydrolases for further structural and 
biochemical characterization and confirmed that thioredoxin fusion tag (TRX) is 
a better choice to increase solubility of recombinant glycoside hydrolases 
expressed in E. coli, when compared to His-tag alone.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.03.008
PMID: 24680731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2017 Oct;44(10):1431-1441. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-017-1967-3. Epub 2017 Jul 10.

A homomeric geranyl diphosphate synthase-encoding gene from Camptotheca 
acuminata and its combinatorial optimization for production of geraniol in 
Escherichia coli.

Yang L(1)(2), Jiang L(1), Li W(1)(2), Yang Y(1)(2), Zhang G(1), Luo Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Natural Products Research, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, 610041, People's Republic of China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, People's Republic 
of China.
(3)Center for Natural Products Research, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, 610041, People's Republic of China. 
yinggluo@cib.ac.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bioorganic and Natural Products Chemistry, Shanghai 
Institute of Organic Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, 200032, 
People's Republic of China. yinggluo@cib.ac.cn.

Geranyl diphosphate (GPP), the unique precursor for all monoterpenoids, is 
biosynthesized from isopentenyl diphosphate and dimethylallyl diphosphate via 
the head-to-tail condensation reaction catalyzed by GPP synthase (GPPS). Herein 
a homomeric GPPS from Camptotheca acuminata, a camptothecin-producing plant, was 
obtained from 5'- and 3'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends and subsequent overlap 
extension and convenient PCR amplifications. The truncate CaGPPS was introduced 
to replace ispA of pBbA5c-MevT(CO)-MBIS(CO, ispA), a de novo biosynthetic 
construct for farnesyl diphosphate generation, and overexpressed in Escherichia 
coli, together with the truncate geraniol synthase-encoding gene from C. 
acuminata (tCaGES), to confirm CaGPPS-catalyzed reaction in vivo. A 
24.0 ± 1.3 mg L-1 of geraniol was produced in the recombinant E. coli. The 
production of GPP was also validated by the direct UPLC-HRMSE analyses. The 
tCaGPPS and tCaGES genes with different copy numbers were introduced into E. 
coli to balance their catalytic potential for high-yield geraniol production. A 
1.6-fold increase of geraniol production was obtained when four copies of 
tCaGPPS and one copy of tCaGES were introduced into E. coli. The following 
fermentation conditions optimization, including removal of organic layers and 
addition of new n-decane, led to a 74.6 ± 6.5 mg L-1 of geraniol production. The 
present study suggested that the gene copy number optimization, i.e., the ratio 
of tCaGPPS and tCaGES, plays an important role in geraniol production in the 
recombinant E. coli. The removal and addition of organic solvent are very useful 
for sustainable high-yield production of geraniol in the recombinant E. coli in 
view of that the solubility of geraniol is limited in the fermentation broth 
and/or n-decane.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-017-1967-3
PMID: 28695386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. J Virol Methods. 2013 Apr;189(1):118-24. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2013.01.020. 
Epub 2013 Feb 8.

Differential expression of two isolates of beak and feather disease virus capsid 
protein in Escherichia coli.

Patterson EI(1), Swarbrick CM, Roman N, Forwood JK, Raidal SR.

Author information:
(1)Charles Sturt University, School of Animal and Veterinary Sciences, Boorooma 
St., Wagga Wagga, New South Wales 2678, Australia.

Expression of recombinant beak and feather disease virus (BFDV) 
capsid-associated protein (Cap) has relied on inefficient techniques that 
typically produce low yields or use specialized expression systems, which 
greatly increase the cost and expertise required for mass production. An 
Escherichia coli system was used to express recombinant BFDV Cap derived from 
two isolates of BFDV, from a Long-billed Corella (Cacatua tenuirostris) and an 
Orange-bellied parrot (OBP; Neophema chrysogaster). Purification by affinity and 
size exclusion chromatography was optimized through an iterative process 
involving screening and modification of buffer constituents and pH. A buffer 
containing glycerol, β-mercaptoethanol, Triton X-100, and a high concentration 
of NaCl at pH 8 was used to increase solubility of the protein. The final 
concentration of the corella-isolated BFDV protein was fifteen- to twenty-fold 
greater than that produced in previous publications using E. coli expression 
systems. Immunoassays were used to confirm the specific antigenicity of 
recombinant Cap, verifying its validity for use in continued experimentation as 
a potential vaccine, a reagent in diagnostic assays, and as a concentrated 
sample for biological discoveries.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2013.01.020
PMID: 23403150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Protein Expr Purif. 2009 Apr;64(2):219-24. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.10.014. Epub 
2008 Nov 5.

High yield bacterial expression and purification of active recombinant 
PA28alphabeta complex.

Le Feuvre AY(1), Dantas-Barbosa C, Baldin V, Coux O.

Author information:
(1)CRBM-CNRS, UMR 5237, Universités Montpellier 1 and 2, 1919 route de Mende, 
34293 Montpellier Cedex 05, France.

The PA28 complexes (also termed REG or 11S complexes) are described as 
activators of the 20S proteasome, a major intracellular protease in eukaryotic 
cells. They bind to the ends of the barrel-shaped 20S proteasome, and activate 
its peptidase activities. The interferon gamma inducible PA28alphabeta, made of 
the two related subunits PA28alpha and beta, is under sustained investigation as 
it plays important roles in the production by the proteasome of class I antigen 
peptides. However, in vitro studies of this complex have been impaired by the 
difficulty of producing large amount of this protein, mainly due to the poor 
solubility of its beta subunit when expressed in Escherichia coli. Here we 
describe the construction of a bicistronic vector, allowing simultaneous 
production of functional human PA28alpha and beta subunits in E. coli. 
Co-expression of the two proteins allows efficient formation of active 
PA28alphabeta complexes, that remain soluble and can be easily purified by 
regular chromatographic procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.10.014
PMID: 19017543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Microb Inform Exp. 2011 Jun 27;1(1):6. doi: 10.1186/2042-5783-1-6.

Large-scale experimental studies show unexpected amino acid effects on protein 
expression and solubility in vivo in E. coli.

Price WN 2nd(1), Handelman SK, Everett JK, Tong SN, Bracic A, Luff JD, Naumov V, 
Acton T, Manor P, Xiao R, Rost B, Montelione GT, Hunt JF.

Author information:
(1)Northeast Structural Genomics Consortium. jfhunt@biology.columbia.edu.

The biochemical and physical factors controlling protein expression level and 
solubility in vivo remain incompletely characterized. To gain insight into the 
primary sequence features influencing these outcomes, we performed statistical 
analyses of results from the high-throughput protein-production pipeline of the 
Northeast Structural Genomics Consortium. Proteins expressed in E. coli and 
consistently purified were scored independently for expression and solubility 
levels. These parameters nonetheless show a very strong positive correlation. We 
used logistic regressions to determine whether they are systematically 
influenced by fractional amino acid composition or several bulk sequence 
parameters including hydrophobicity, sidechain entropy, electrostatic charge, 
and predicted backbone disorder. Decreasing hydrophobicity correlates with 
higher expression and solubility levels, but this correlation apparently derives 
solely from the beneficial effect of three charged amino acids, at least for 
bacterial proteins. In fact, the three most hydrophobic residues showed very 
different correlations with solubility level. Leu showed the strongest negative 
correlation among amino acids, while Ile showed a slightly positive correlation 
in most data segments. Several other amino acids also had unexpected effects. 
Notably, Arg correlated with decreased expression and, most surprisingly, 
solubility of bacterial proteins, an effect only partially attributable to rare 
codons. However, rare codons did significantly reduce expression despite use of 
a codon-enhanced strain. Additional analyses suggest that positively but not 
negatively charged amino acids may reduce translation efficiency in E. coli 
irrespective of codon usage. While some observed effects may reflect indirect 
evolutionary correlations, others may reflect basic physicochemical phenomena. 
We used these results to construct and validate predictors of expression and 
solubility levels and overall protein usability, and we propose new strategies 
to be explored for engineering improved protein expression and solubility.

DOI: 10.1186/2042-5783-1-6
PMCID: PMC3372292
PMID: 22587847


249. J Biomed Sci. 2009 Aug 11;16(1):69. doi: 10.1186/1423-0127-16-69.

Production of FMDV virus-like particles by a SUMO fusion protein approach in 
Escherichia coli.

Lee CD(1), Yan YP, Liang SM, Wang TF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan, 
Republic of China. cdlee@gate.sinica.edu.tw

Virus-like particles (VLPs) are formed by the self-assembly of envelope and/or 
capsid proteins from many viruses. Some VLPs have been proven successful as 
vaccines, and others have recently found applications as carriers for foreign 
antigens or as scaffolds in nanoparticle biotechnology. However, production of 
VLP was usually impeded due to low water-solubility of recombinant virus capsid 
proteins. Previous studies revealed that virus capsid and envelope proteins were 
often posttranslationally modified by SUMO in vivo, leading into a hypothesis 
that SUMO modification might be a common mechanism for virus proteins to retain 
water-solubility or prevent improper self-aggregation before virus assembly. We 
then propose a simple approach to produce VLPs of viruses, e.g., foot-and-mouth 
disease virus (FMDV). An improved SUMO fusion protein system we developed 
recently was applied to the simultaneous expression of three capsid proteins of 
FMDV in E. coli. The three SUMO fusion proteins formed a stable heterotrimeric 
complex. Proteolytic removal of SUMO moieties from the ternary complexes 
resulted in VLPs with size and shape resembling the authentic FMDV. The method 
described here can also apply to produce capsid/envelope protein complexes or 
VLPs of other disease-causing viruses.

DOI: 10.1186/1423-0127-16-69
PMCID: PMC2736159
PMID: 19671144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Protein Expr Purif. 2009 Jun;65(2):196-203. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.11.012. Epub 
2008 Dec 7.

Heterologous expression, purification, and characterization of cytochrome 
P450sca-2 and mutants with improved solubility in Escherichia coli.

Li P(1), Guan H, Li J, Lin Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, 1 Tsinghua Garden 
Road, Beijing 100084, China.

Pravastatin, an important cholesterol lowering drug, is currently produced by 
hydroxylation of mevastatin (ML-236B) with Streptomyces carbophilus, in which 
the enzyme P450sca-2 plays a key role. Little information on the recombinant 
expression of this enzyme is available. As it is of industrial interest to 
develop an alternative simplified enzymatic process for pravastatin, as a first 
step, further study on the heterologous expression of this enzyme is warranted. 
We report here, for the first time, the purification, and characterization of 
P450sca-2 expressed in Escherichia coli. A synthetic gene encoding P450sca-2 was 
designed to suit the standard codon usage of E. coli. Expression of P450sca-2 in 
E. coli under optimized conditions yielded about 100 nmol purified active 
P450sca-2 per liter. Directed evolution was further carried out to improve the 
soluble expression level. In the absence of a facile and sensitive assay, green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) was used as a reporter to enable high-throughput 
screening. After three rounds of evolution by error-prone PCR and DNA shuffling, 
six almost totally soluble mutants were obtained, with the soluble expression 
levels dramatically improved by about 30-fold. For six most frequently occurring 
mutations, the corresponding single mutants were created to dissect the effects 
of these mutations. A single mutation, P159A, was found to be responsible for 
most of the enhanced solubility observed in the six mutants, and the 
corresponding single mutant also retained the hydroxylation activity. Our study 
provides a foundation for future work on improving functional expression of 
P450sca-2 in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.11.012
PMID: 19100328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Protein J. 2012 Oct;31(7):580-4. doi: 10.1007/s10930-012-9437-2.

Fusion protein strategy to increase expression and solubility of hypervariable 
region of VP2 protein of infectious bursal disease virus in Escherichia coli.

Sedighzadeh SS(1), Shamsara M, Shahpiri A.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology (NIGEB), P.O. Box 
14155-6343, Tehran, Iran.

Infectious bursal disease is one of the most important viral diseases in the 
young chickens. VP2 protein is the major host protective immunogen of the virus. 
A hypervariable region is present in VP2 protein (hvVP2) that contains 
immunodominant epitops. The high hydrophobicity of hvVP2 region causes protein 
aggregation in Escherichia coli (E. coli). The objective of the present study 
was to improve the expression and the solubility of the hvVP2 protein in E. 
coli. The effects of fusion partners on the solubility of hvVP2 protein were 
studied. The protein was expressed in forms of unfused and N-terminally fused to 
GST and NusA. The results showed that the unfused hvVP2 protein was expressed in 
very low level. But, N-terminally fused hvVP2 protein to GST 
(glutathione-S-transferase) and NusA (N utilization substance A) showed 
significantly enhanced protein expression. The fusion of GST and hvVP2 was 
produced in aggregated form while in the presence of NusA, the hvVP2 protein was 
expressed in a soluble form. The NusA-hvVP2 protein was detected by a 
neutralizing monoclonal antibody, 1A6, in antigen-capture ELISA. In conclusion, 
the NusA protein is a suitable fusion partner to improve expression and 
solubility of the hvVP2 protein in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-012-9437-2
PMID: 22865249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 20;9(1):e85890. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085890. 
eCollection 2014.

Soluble expression of disulfide bond containing proteins FGF15 and FGF19 in the 
cytoplasm of Escherichia coli.

Kong B(1), Guo GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy, 
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, New Jersey, United 
States of America.

Fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) is the human ortholog of mouse FGF15, and 
both proteins function as an endocrine signal to regulate various liver 
functions. FGF15/FGF19 protein contains two disulfide bonds. It is unfavorable 
to form disulfide bonds in Escherichia coli (E. coli) cytoplasm because of the 
bacterial cytoplasmic reducing environment. Modification of the cytoplasmic 
reducing environment and/or co-expression of protein chaperones are common 
strategies to express disulfide bond containing proteins in E. coli. In the 
current study, we report a method to produce soluble FGF15/FGF19 protein in 
cytoplasm of E. coli. Several commercial available strains with the disruption 
of thiol-redox pathways, and/or co-expression of redoxase or refolding 
chaperones were used to develop this novel method for expression of FGF15/FGF19 
in E. coli. Mutation of the thiol-disulfide bond reducing pathway in E. coli or 
N-terminal fusion of thioredox (TRX) alone is not enough to support disulfide 
bond formation in FGF15/19 proteins. However, TRX fusion protein improved FGF19 
solubility in strains of thiol-redox system mutants. In addition, DsbC 
co-expressed in thiol-redox system mutants alone improved and further enhanced 
FGF19 solubility with combination of TRX fusion tag. The soluble FGF19 proteins 
were easily purified through Ni-NTA affinity chromatography and anion exchange 
chromatography, and the purified protein maintained its biological activities, 
confirmed by suppressing hepatic Cyp7a1 gene transcription in mice and by 
activating ERK1/2 signaling pathway in HepG2 cells. In contrast, soluble FGF15 
protein in cytoplasm remained very low using these strategies. In summary, we 
have successfully developed a method to express functional FGF19 protein in 
prokaryotic cells, and this strategy may be adapted for the expression of other 
disulfide-containing proteins.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085890
PMCID: PMC3896424
PMID: 24465767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


253. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2008 Apr;41(4):270-6. doi: 10.1590/s0100-879x2008005000009. 
Epub 2008 Feb 14.

Increased expression and purification of soluble iron-regulatory protein 1 from 
Escherichia coli co-expressing chaperonins GroES and GroEL.

Carvalho H(1), Meneghini R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, 
Diadema, SP, Brasil. helotonio.carvalho@gmail.com

Iron is an essential metal for all living organisms. However, iron homeostasis 
needs to be tightly controlled since iron can mediate the production of reactive 
oxygen species, which can damage cell components and compromise the integrity 
and/or cause DNA mutations, ultimately leading to cancer. In eukaryotes, 
iron-regulatory protein 1 (IRP1) plays a central role in the control of 
intracellular iron homeostasis. This occurs by interaction of IRP1 with 
iron-responsive element regions at 5' of ferritin mRNA and 3' of transferrin 
mRNA which, respectively, represses translation and increases mRNA stability. We 
have expressed IRP1 using the plasmid pT7-His-hIRP1, which codifies for human 
IRP1 attached to an NH2-terminal 6-His tag. IRP1 was expressed in Escherichia 
coli using the strategy of co-expressing chaperonins GroES and GroEL, in order 
to circumvent inclusion body formation and increase the yield of soluble 
protein. The protein co-expressed with these chaperonins was obtained mostly in 
the soluble form, which greatly increased the efficiency of protein 
purification. Metal affinity and FPLC ion exchange chromatography were used in 
order to obtain highly purified IRP1. Purified protein was biologically active, 
as assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay, and could be converted to 
the cytoplasmic aconitase form. These results corroborate previous studies, 
which suggest the use of folding catalysts as a powerful strategy to increase 
protein solubility when expressing heterologous proteins in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2008005000009
PMID: 18297188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2005 Sep;71(9):5038-43. doi: 
10.1128/AEM.71.9.5038-5043.2005.

Facilitation of expression and purification of an antimicrobial peptide by 
fusion with baculoviral polyhedrin in Escherichia coli.

Wei Q(1), Kim YS, Seo JH, Jang WS, Lee IH, Cha HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, Pohang 790-784, Korea.

Several fusion strategies have been developed for the expression and 
purification of small antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) in recombinant bacterial 
expression systems. However, some of these efforts have been limited by product 
toxicity to host cells, product proteolysis, low expression levels, poor 
recovery yields, and sometimes an absence of posttranslational modifications 
required for biological activity. For the present work, we investigated the use 
of the baculoviral polyhedrin (Polh) protein as a novel fusion partner for the 
production of a model AMP (halocidin 18-amino-acid subunit; Hal18) in 
Escherichia coli. The useful solubility properties of Polh as a fusion partner 
facilitated the expression of the Polh-Hal18 fusion protein ( approximately 33.6 
kDa) by forming insoluble inclusion bodies in E. coli which could easily be 
purified by inclusion body isolation and affinity purification using the fused 
hexahistidine tag. The recombinant Hal18 AMP ( approximately 2 kDa) could then 
be cleaved with hydroxylamine from the fusion protein and easily recovered by 
simple dialysis and centrifugation. This was facilitated by the fact that Polh 
was soluble during the alkaline cleavage reaction but became insoluble during 
dialysis at a neutral pH. Reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography 
was used to further purify the separated recombinant Hal18, giving a final yield 
of 30% with >90% purity. Importantly, recombinant and synthetic Hal18 peptides 
showed nearly identical antimicrobial activities against E. coli and 
Staphylococcus aureus, which were used as representative gram-negative and 
gram-positive bacteria, respectively. These results demonstrate that baculoviral 
Polh can provide an efficient and facile platform for the production or 
functional study of target AMPs.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.71.9.5038-5043.2005
PMCID: PMC1214617
PMID: 16151084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2010 Jun;87(2):609-16. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-010-2495-5. Epub 2010 Mar 6.

Soluble expression and purification of the anthrax protective antigen in E. coli 
and identification of a novel dominant-negative mutant N435C.

Wu G(1), Feng C, Hong Y, Guo A, Cao S, Dong J, Lin L, Liu Z.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, College of Life Science 
and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, People's 
Republic of China.

The anthrax toxin is an AB-type bacterium toxin composed of the protective 
antigen (PA) as the cell-binding B component, and the lethal factor (LF) and 
edema toxin (EF) as the catalytic A components. The PA component is a key factor 
in anthrax-related research and recombinant PA can be produced in general in 
Escherichia coli. However, such recombinant PA always forms inclusion bodies in 
the cytoplasm of E. coli, making difficult the procedure of its purification. In 
this study, we found that the solubility of recombinant PA was dramatically 
enhanced by fusion with glutathione S-transferase (GST) and an induction of its 
expression at 28 degrees C. The PA was purified to high homogeneity and a yield 
of 3 mg protein was obtained from 1 l culture by an affinity-chromatography 
approach. Moreover, we expressed and purified three PA mutants, I394C, A396C, 
and N435C, which were impaired in expression in previous study. Among them, a 
novel mutant N435C which conferred dominant-negative inhibitory activity on PA 
was identified. This new mutant may be useful in designing new antitoxin for 
anthrax prophylaxis and therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-010-2495-5
PMID: 20213183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Huazhong Univ Sci Technolog Med Sci. 2005;25(3):251-3. doi: 
10.1007/BF02828133.

Construtcion of Neisseria gonorrhoeae porin B plasmid recombinant and its 
expression in E. coli.

Song Q(1), Liao F, Ye S, Cui B, Xiong P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biopathogen, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tong ji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

A prokaryotic expression recombinant plasmid pET-PIB to express porin B (PIB) of 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae in E. coli DE3 was constructed in order to provide a basis 
of research in detection, prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine against the 
pathogen infection. The gene encoding PIB was amplified by PCR from Neisseria 
gonorrhoeae and cloned into prokaryotic expression plasmid pET-28a(+) to 
construct a pET-PIB recombinant, which was verified by restriction endonuclease 
and DNA sequencing. Protein PIB was expressed in E. coli DE3 induced with IPTG. 
The antigenicity of the expressed protein was evaluated by indirect ELISA. 
Rabbits were immunized with the protein and serum was collected after 
immunization. To assess the immunogenicity of the protein, the titer of serum to 
protein PIB was determined by ELISA. DNA sequence analysis showed that the 
nucleic acid sequence of PIB gene was 99.28% of homology compared with that 
(NGPIB18) published in GenBank. A 41 kD fused protein was detected by SDS-PAGE 
and was proven to have reactivity with anti-PIB polyclonal antibody from mouse. 
A polyclonal antibody to PIB of 1:4000 titer determined by indirect EISA was 
obtained from rabbit immunized with the purified product. Recombinant plasmid 
encoding PIB of Neisseria gonorrhoeae was constructed. Protein PIB with 
antigenicity and immunogenicity was successfully expressed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02828133
PMID: 16201262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Bioresour Technol. 2017 Jul;235:140-148. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2017.03.085. 
Epub 2017 Mar 18.

Engineering coenzyme A-dependent pathway from Clostridium saccharobutylicum in 
Escherichia coli for butanol production.

Ye W(1), Li J(1), Han R(1), Xu G(1), Dong J(1), Ni Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China; Key 
Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China; Key 
Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China. Electronic address: 
yni@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Clostridium saccharobutylicum has been proved to be efficient in butanol 
fermentation from various feedstocks. Whereas, lack of genetic manipulation 
system has severely hindered the engineering of C. saccharobutylicum for more 
extensive applications. In this study, recombinant Escherichia coli harboring 
heterologous coenzyme A-dependent pathway from C. saccharobutylicum DSM 13864 
was constructed, which consisted of solventogenic pathway genes: acetoacetyl-CoA 
thiolase (thlA), aldehyde/alcohol dehydrogenase (adhE2) and bcs-operon 
(crt-bcd1-etfB2-fixB2-hbd). Then, a butanol titer of 67mg/L was attained. After 
replacing thlA with acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase (atoB) from E. coli and 
deleting the competitive branch genes lactate dehydrogenase (ldhA), 
aldehyde/alcohol dehydrogenase (adhE1) and fumarate reductase (frdBC), the 
butanol titer was successfully improved for 3.8-fold (254mg/L). Under the 
optimum fermentation conditions, the final butanol titer reached 584mg/L after 
120h. This result demonstrates the feasibility of adapting CoA-dependent 
solventogenic pathway from C. saccharobutylicum in E. coli for butanol 
synthesis.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2017.03.085
PMID: 28365341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Microb Cell Fact. 2022 Mar 9;21(1):36. doi: 10.1186/s12934-022-01761-0.

Engineering Saccharomyces cerevisiae for the production and secretion of 
Affibody molecules.

Gast V(1), Sandegren A(2), Dunås F(2), Ekblad S(2), Güler R(2), Thorén S(2), 
Tous Mohedano M(1), Molin M(1), Engqvist MKM(1), Siewers V(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Biological Engineering, Chalmers University of 
Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Affibody AB, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Biology and Biological Engineering, Chalmers University of 
Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden. siewers@chalmers.se.
(4)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Chalmers University of 
Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden. siewers@chalmers.se.

BACKGROUND: Affibody molecules are synthetic peptides with a variety of 
therapeutic and diagnostic applications. To date, Affibody molecules have mainly 
been produced by the bacterial production host Escherichia coli. There is an 
interest in exploring alternative production hosts to identify potential 
improvements in terms of yield, ease of production and purification advantages. 
In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a 
production chassis for this group of proteins.
RESULTS: We examined the production of three different Affibody molecules in S. 
cerevisiae and found that these Affibody molecules were partially degraded. An 
albumin-binding domain, which may be attached to the Affibody molecules to 
increase their half-life, was identified to be a substrate for several S. 
cerevisiae proteases. We tested the removal of three vacuolar proteases, 
proteinase A, proteinase B and carboxypeptidase Y. Removal of one of these, 
proteinase A, resulted in intact secretion of one of the targeted Affibody 
molecules. Removal of either or both of the two additional proteases, 
carboxypeptidase Y and proteinase B, resulted in intact secretion of the two 
remaining Affibody molecules. The produced Affibody molecules were verified to 
bind their target, human HER3, as potently as the corresponding molecules 
produced in E. coli in an in vitro surface-plasmon resonance binding assay. 
Finally, we performed a fed-batch fermentation with one of the engineered 
protease-deficient S. cerevisiae strains and achieved a protein titer of 530 mg 
Affibody molecule/L.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that engineered S. cerevisiae has a great potential 
as a production host for recombinant Affibody molecules, reaching a high titer, 
and for proteins where endotoxin removal could be challenging, the use of S. 
cerevisiae obviates the need for endotoxin removal from protein produced in E. 
coli.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-022-01761-0
PMCID: PMC8905840
PMID: 35264156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


259. Biotechnol Lett. 2004 Oct;26(19):1487-91. doi: 
10.1023/B:BILE.0000044449.08268.7d.

Production of mevalonate by a metabolically-engineered Escherichia coli.

Tabata K(1), Hashimoto S.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd., 3-6-6, Asahi-machi, 
Machida-shi, Tokyo 194-8533, Japan. tabata@kyowa.co.jp

Mevalonate is biosynthesized from acetyl-CoA and metabolized to isoprenoid 
compounds in a wide variety of organisms although certain types of prokaryotes 
employ another route for isoprenoid biosynthesis (the non-mevalonate pathway). 
To establish a fermentative process for mevalonate production, enzymes for 
mevalonate synthesis from Enterococcus faecalis were expressed in Escherichia 
coli, a non-mevalonate pathway bacterium. Mevalonate was accumulated, indicating 
a redirection of acetate metabolism by the expressed enzyme. The recombinant E. 
coli produced 47 g mevalonate l(-1) in 50 h of fed-batch cultivation in a 2 l 
jar fermenter; this is the highest titer ever reported demonstrating the 
superiority of E. coli in its ability of acetyl-CoA supply and its inability is 
degrade mevalonate.

DOI: 10.1023/B:BILE.0000044449.08268.7d
PMID: 15604784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Sep;91(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.06.011. Epub 
2013 Jul 1.

Expression, purification and characterization of two truncated peste des petits 
ruminants virus matrix proteins in Escherichia coli, and production of 
polyclonal antibodies against this protein.

Liu F(1), Wu X, Li L, Liu Z, Wang Z.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Zoonosis Research, Ministry of Education, College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Jilin University, No. 5333 Xi'an Road, Changchun, Jilin 
130062, China.

Peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV), the etiological agent of peste des 
petits ruminants, is classified into the genus Morbillivirus in the family 
Paramyxoviridae. The PPRV matrix (M) gene is composed of 1483 base pairs, 
encoding a 335 amino acids M protein with a molecular weight of approximately 
38kD. We have demonstrated previously that the full-length M protein was 
expressed at an extremely low level or not even expressed in Escherichia coli 
BL21 (DE3). In this study, the M protein was split into two truncated forms to 
be successfully expressed in E. coli at a high level using the pET30a (+) 
vector, respectively, by analysis of SDS-PAGE, western blot and MALDI-TOF-MS. 
The optimization of culture conditions led us to perform the recombinant protein 
induction with 0.2mM IPTG at 28°C for 12h, whereby both proteins nevertheless 
were expressed in the insoluble form. Therefore, both His-tagged proteins were 
purified under the denaturing condition using a commercially available kit. 
Balb/c mice were immunized with the complex of purified proteins and then 
effectively produced polyclonal antibodies, which reached to a relatively high 
titer by the analysis of ELISA. The specificity of the prepared polyclonal 
antibodies was checked by western blot and immunofluorescence, revealing them 
with the desirable specificity against both non-denatured and denatured M 
proteins.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.06.011
PMID: 23827209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2010 Apr 9;394(3):679-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.03.051. Epub 2010 Mar 11.

Galectin-1 as a fusion partner for the production of soluble and folded human 
beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase-T7 in E. coli.

Pasek M(1), Boeggeman E, Ramakrishnan B, Qasba PK.

Author information:
(1)Structural Glycobiology Section, SAIC-Frederick, Inc., Center for Cancer 
Research Nanobiology Program, Center for Cancer Research, NCI-Frederick, 
Frederick, MD, USA.

The expression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli often leads to 
inactive aggregated proteins known as the inclusion bodies. To date, the best 
available tool has been the use of fusion tags, including the 
carbohydrate-binding protein; e.g., the maltose-binding protein (MBP) that 
enhances the solubility of recombinant proteins. However, none of these fusion 
tags work universally with every partner protein. We hypothesized that 
galectins, which are also carbohydrate-binding proteins, may help as fusion 
partners in folding the mammalian proteins in E. coli. Here we show for the 
first time that a small soluble lectin, human galectin-1, one member of a large 
galectin family, can function as a fusion partner to produce soluble folded 
recombinant human glycosyltransferase, beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase-7 
(beta4Gal-T7), in E. coli. The enzyme beta4Gal-T7 transfers galactose to xylose 
during the synthesis of the tetrasaccharide linker sequence attached to a Ser 
residue of proteoglycans. Without a fusion partner, beta4Gal-T7 is expressed in 
E. coli as inclusion bodies. We have designed a new vector construct, pLgals1, 
from pET-23a that includes the sequence for human galectin-1, followed by the 
Tev protease cleavage site, a 6x His-coding sequence, and a multi-cloning site 
where a cloned gene is inserted. After lactose affinity column purification of 
galectin-1-beta4Gal-T7 fusion protein, the unique protease cleavage site allows 
the protein beta4Gal-T7 to be cleaved from galectin-1 that binds and elutes from 
UDP-agarose column. The eluted protein is enzymatically active, and shows CD 
spectra comparable to the folded beta4Gal-T1. The engineered galectin-1 vector 
could prove to be a valuable tool for expressing other proteins in E. coli.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.03.051
PMCID: PMC2859968
PMID: 20226765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Front Vet Sci. 2022 Feb 25;9:819217. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2022.819217. eCollection 
2022.

Fiber Protein Produced in Escherichia coli as a Subunit Vaccine Candidate 
Against Egg-Drop Syndrome 76.

Wang L(1)(2), Zhang P(2), Huang B(2), Wang M(2), Tian H(2), Liu P(2), Liu W(2), 
Tian K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural University, Zhengzhou, 
China.
(2)National Research Center for Veterinary Medicine, Luoyang, China.

The egg-drop syndrome '76 (EDS '76) caused by duck atadenovirus A (DAdV-1) 
infection in laying hens leads to the decrease in egg production, causing heavy 
economic losses in the poultry industry; thus, vaccines with high safety and 
immunogenicity are needed. In this study, the DAdV-1 fiber protein expressed in 
Escherichia coli with codon optimization showed the hemagglutination (HA) titer 
of 13 log2 after purification (0.6 mg/mL). Compared with inactivated EDS '76 
vaccine, the specific pathogen-free chickens immunized with 0.4 mL fiber protein 
(HA titer of 11 log2) induced an equal level of HA inhibition (HI) titer and 
neutralizing antibodies. Meanwhile, after immunization with fiber protein, the 
lowest HI titer that could provide the effect to reduce egg production rate in 
laying hens after the challenge was 7 log2. Moreover, fiber protein with an HA 
titer of 7 log2 could induce an HI titer no <7 log2 in laying hens, which was 
equal to or higher than the lowest HI titer (7 log2) that could reduce egg 
production against DAdV-1 infection significantly, indicating that it is 
economically feasible for vaccine development. Importantly, the HI antibodies 
maintained at a high level up to 180 days postimmunization contribute to the 
clinical application of the vaccine candidate. Overall, the fiber protein 
produced in E. coli is an effective subunit vaccine candidate in EDS '76 control 
for its high immunogenicity and protection in chickens.

Copyright © 2022 Wang, Zhang, Huang, Wang, Tian, Liu, Liu and Tian.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2022.819217
PMCID: PMC8913573
PMID: 35280142

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


263. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2017 Jun 30;83(14):e00662-17. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00662-17. 
Print 2017 Jul 15.

A New Player in the Biorefineries Field: Phasin PhaP Enhances Tolerance to 
Solvents and Boosts Ethanol and 1,3-Propanediol Synthesis in Escherichia coli.

Mezzina MP(1)(2), Álvarez DS(1)(2), Egoburo DE(1)(2), Díaz Peña R(1)(2), Nikel 
PI(3), Pettinari MJ(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de Buenos Aires, 
Departamento de Química Biológica, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Química Biológica de la Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales 
(CONICET-Universidad de Buenos Aires), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical 
University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark pabnik@biosustain.dtu.dk 
jul@qb.fcen.uba.ar.
(4)Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de Buenos Aires, 
Departamento de Química Biológica, Buenos Aires, Argentina 
pabnik@biosustain.dtu.dk jul@qb.fcen.uba.ar.

The microbial production of biofuels and other added-value chemicals is often 
limited by the intrinsic toxicity of these compounds. The phasin PhaP from the 
soil bacterium Azotobacter sp. strain FA8 is a polyhydroxyalkanoate 
granule-associated protein that protects recombinant Escherichia coli against 
several kinds of stress. PhaP enhances growth and poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) 
synthesis in polymer-producing recombinant strains and reduces the formation of 
inclusion bodies during overproduction of heterologous proteins. In this work, 
the heterologous expression of this phasin in E. coli was used as a strategy to 
increase tolerance to several biotechnologically relevant chemicals. PhaP was 
observed to enhance bacterial fitness in the presence of biofuels, such as 
ethanol and butanol, and other chemicals, such as 1,3-propanediol. The effect of 
PhaP was also studied in a groELS mutant strain, in which both GroELS and PhaP 
were observed to exert a beneficial effect that varied depending on the chemical 
tested. Lastly, the potential of PhaP and GroEL to enhance the accumulation of 
ethanol or 1,3-propanediol was analyzed in recombinant E. coli Strains that 
overexpressed either groEL or phaP had increased growth, reflected in a higher 
final biomass and product titer than the control strain. Taken together, these 
results add a novel application to the already multifaceted phasin protein 
group, suggesting that expression of these proteins or other chaperones can be 
used to improve the production of biofuels and other chemicals.IMPORTANCE This 
work has both basic and applied aspects. Our results demonstrate that a phasin 
with chaperone-like properties can increase bacterial tolerance to several 
biochemicals, providing further evidence of the diverse properties of these 
proteins. Additionally, both the PhaP phasin and the well-known chaperone GroEL 
were used to increase the biosynthesis of the biotechnologically relevant 
compounds ethanol and 1,3-propanediol in recombinant E. coli These findings open 
the road for the use of these proteins for the manipulation of bacterial strains 
to optimize the synthesis of diverse bioproducts from renewable carbon sources.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00662-17
PMCID: PMC5494618
PMID: 28476770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2008 Dec 15;101(6):1353-8. doi: 10.1002/bit.21996.

Yield, solubility and conformational quality of soluble proteins are not 
simultaneously favored in recombinant Escherichia coli.

Martínez-Alonso M(1), García-Fruitós E, Villaverde A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Institute for Biotechnology and 
Biomedicine, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Bellaterra, Barcelona, Spain.

Many enzymes or fluorescent proteins produced in Escherichia coli are 
enzymatically active or fluorescent respectively when deposited as inclusion 
bodies. The occurrence of insoluble but functional protein species with 
native-like secondary structure indicates that solubility and conformational 
quality of recombinant proteins are not coincident parameters, and suggests that 
both properties can be engineered independently. We have here proven this 
principle by producing elevated yields of a highly fluorescent but insoluble 
green fluorescent protein (GFP) in a DnaK- background, and further enhancing its 
solubility through adjusting the growth temperature and GFP gene expression 
rate. The success of such a two-step approach confirms the independent control 
of solubility and conformational quality, advocates for new routes towards high 
quality protein production and intriguingly, proves that high protein yields 
dramatically compromise the conformational quality of soluble versions.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.21996
PMID: 18980180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Zhonghua Jie He He Hu Xi Za Zhi. 2004 Feb;27(2):89-92.

[Mycobacterium tuberculosis secreting protein Ag85B-ESAT6 fused expression and 
purification].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi CH(1), Fan XL, Xu ZK, Li Y, Bai YL, Xue Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Preclinical Medicine, Fourth Military 
Medical University, Xi'an 710033, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the fused expression of secreted protein Ag85B-ESAT6 
of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and to provide a promising preventive subunit 
vaccine against tuberculosis.
METHODS: The gene encoding Ag85B and ESAT6 protein was amplified by PCR from 
genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H(37)Rv strain, and inserted into cloning 
vector P(GEM)-T-easy. After sequence analysis, and digestion by restriction 
endonuclease, Ag85B-ESAT6 was cloned into corresponding sites of the expression 
vector P(PRO) EXHT, and the recombinant plasmid was transformed into expressive 
strain E. coli DH5 alpha, induced with IPTG and fusion protein was purified by 
Ni-NTA purification system. The specific antibody titer in the sera of BALB/c 
mouse immunized with two fusion protein was detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: The sequences of Ag85B and ESAT6 by PCR amplification were identical to 
those reported by GenBank. The recombinant plasmid fused expression protein of 
Ag85B-ESAT6 with relative molecular mass (Mr) of 37,000, which was confirmed by 
Western-blot analysis with specific monoclonal antibody against 6 x HismAb. The 
fused expression protein was insoluble. It could be purified by Ni-NTA 
purification system. The specific antibody titer in the sera of BALB/c mouse 
immunized with fusion Ag85B-ESAT6 was 1:1000 and that of mouse immunized with 
fusion protein ESAT6-Ag85B was 1:5000.
CONCLUSIONS: Secreted protein Ag85B-ESAT6 of Mycobacterium tuberculosis was 
successfully fused expressed in E. Coli DH5 alpha. It may become a new type of 
vaccine against tuberculosis.

PMID: 14990181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Biosci Bioeng. 2014 Sep;118(3):242-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2014.02.012. Epub 
2014 Mar 18.

Co-expression of a heat shock transcription factor to improve conformational 
quality of recombinant protein in Escherichia coli.

Hsu SY(1), Lin YS(1), Li SJ(1), Lee WC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Systems Biology and Tissue Engineering 
Research Center, National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi 621, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Systems Biology and Tissue Engineering 
Research Center, National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi 621, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: chmwcl@ccu.edu.tw.

A co-expression system was established in Escherichia coli for enhancing the 
cellular expression of heat shock transcription factor, sigma 32 (σ(32)). A 
Shine-Dalgarno sequence and the rpoH gene of E. coli, which encodes σ(32), were 
cloned into a bacterial plasmid containing a gene fusion encoding a doubly 
tagged N-acetyl-d-neuraminic acid aldolase (GST-Neu5Ac aldolase-5R). After the 
IPTG induction, a substantially higher level of sigma 32 was observed up to 3 h 
in the co-expression cells, but an enhancement in the solubility of target 
protein was manifest only in the first hour. Nevertheless, the co-expression of 
sigma 32 led to higher level of Neu5Ac aldolase enzymatic activity in both the 
soluble and insoluble (inclusion body) fractions. The Neu5Ac aldolase activity 
of the supernatant from the lysate of cells co-expressing GST-Neu5Ac aldolase-5R 
and recombinant σ(32) was 3.4-fold higher at 3 h postinduction than that in 
cells overexpressing GST-Neu5Ac aldolase-5R in the absence of recombinantly 
expressed σ(32). The results of acrylamide quenching indicated that the 
conformational quality of the fusion protein was improved by the co-expression 
of recombinant σ(32). Thus, the increased level of intracellular σ(32) might 
have created favorable conditions for the proper folding of recombinant proteins 
through the cooperative effects of chaperones/heat shock proteins expressed by 
the E. coli host, which resulted in smaller inclusion bodies, improved 
conformational quality and a higher specific activity of the overexpressed 
GST-Neu5Ac aldolase-5R protein.

Copyright © 2014 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2014.02.012
PMID: 24656305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Biotechnol J. 2014 Dec;9(12):1526-35. doi: 10.1002/biot.201400221. Epub 2014 Oct 
10.

Coenzyme B12 can be produced by engineered Escherichia coli under both anaerobic 
and aerobic conditions.

Ko Y(1), Ashok S, Ainala SK, Sankaranarayanan M, Chun AY, Jung GY, Park S.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Pusan National University, 
Busan, South Korea.

Comment in
    Biotechnol J. 2014 Dec;9(12):1478-9.

Coenzyme B12 (Vitamin B12 ) is one of the most complex biomolecules and an 
essential cofactor required for the catalytic activity of many enzymes. 
Pseudomonas denitrificans synthesizes coenzyme B12 in an oxygen-dependent manner 
using a pathway encoded by more than 25 genes that are located in six different 
operons. Escherichia coli, a robust and suitable host for metabolic engineering 
was used to produce coenzyme B12 . These genes were cloned into three compatible 
plasmids and expressed heterologously in E. coli BL21 (DE3). Real-time PCR, 
SDS-PAGE analysis and bioassay showed that the recombinant E. coli expressed the 
coenzyme B12 synthetic genes and successfully produced coenzyme B12 . However, 
according to the quantitative determination by inductively coupled plasma-mass 
spectrometry, the amount of coenzyme B12 produced by the recombinant E. coli 
(0.21 ± 0.02 μg/g cdw) was approximately 13-fold lower than that by P. 
denitrificans (2.75 ± 0.22 μg/g cdw). Optimization of the culture conditions to 
improve the production of coenzyme B12 by the recombinant E. coli was 
successful, and the highest titer (0.65 ± 0.03 μg/g cdw) of coenzyme B12 was 
obtained. Interestingly, although the synthesis of coenzyme B12 in P. 
denitrificans is strictly oxygen-dependent, the recombinant E. coli could 
produce coenzyme B12 under anaerobic conditions.

Copyright © 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201400221
PMID: 25146562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Curr Microbiol. 2016 Jul;73(1):91-8. doi: 10.1007/s00284-016-1027-7. Epub 2016 
Apr 4.

Expression of a Chimeric Allergen with High Rare Codons Content in Codon 
Bias-Adjusted Escherichia coli: Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3)-Codon Plus RIL as an 
Efficient Host.

Nouri HR(1), Karkhah A(2), Varasteh A(3), Sankian M(4).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Health Research Institute, 
Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Babol University of Medical 
Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(3)Allergy Research Center, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Immunobiochemistry Lab, Immunology Research Center, School of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. sankianm@mums.ac.ir.

The expression of heterologous proteins in Escherichia coli (E. coli) is 
importantly affected by codon bias. Hence, the aim of the current study was to 
determine which codon bias-adjusted E. coli strain is sufficient for expression 
of a chimeric allergen coded by high rare codon content. To investigate the 
expression level, a chimeric protein of Chenopodium album (C. album) was used as 
an appropriate model. An expression construct was assembled and was transformed 
to four strains of codon bias-adjusted E. coli including origami, BL21 (DE3), 
BL21 (DE3)-codon plus RIL, and Rosetta. The level of expression and solubility 
of the chimeric allergen was analyzed by SDS-PAGE. In addition, the 
allergenicity of chimeric allergen was determined using immunoblotting. Our 
results showed that the chimeric allergen was expressed at high level in E. coli 
BL21 (DE3)-codon plus RIL and Rosetta. In detail, this recombinant allergen was 
isolated from soluble fraction in the codon bias-adjusted strains of E. coli 
BL21 (DE3)-codon plus RIL and Rosetta. Moreover, some lower molecular weight 
proteins were observed in Rosetta, which could be related to inappropriate 
expression or broken compartments of the chimeric allergen. The immunoblotting 
assay confirmed that the IgE-specific immune reactivity of our chimeric allergen 
expressed in BL21 (DE3)-codon plus RIL was significantly higher than the other 
strains. Our results showed that the expression of the chimeric allergen with 
high rare codons content in a codon bias-adjusted strain E. coli BL21 
(DE3)-codon plus RIL improves the quality and solubility of the heterologous 
protein production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-016-1027-7
PMID: 27040822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Oct;61(2):184-90. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.05.014. Epub 
2008 Jun 3.

Green fluorescent protein and factorial approach: an effective partnership for 
screening the soluble expression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli.

Coutard B(1), Gagnaire M, Guilhon AA, Berro M, Canaan S, Bignon C.

Author information:
(1)Architecture et Fonction des Macromolécules Biologiques, UMR 6098, CNRS and 
Universités d'Aix-Marseille I and II, Case 932 Campus de Luminy, 163 Avenue de 
Luminy 13288 Marseille Cedex 09, France.

We report how the combined use of protein expression reporter green fluorescent 
protein (GFP), and of an incomplete factorial approach ("InFFact") made of 12 
combinations of different states of three expression variables (bacterial 
strains, culture media and expression temperatures) created a convenient tool 
for screening the soluble expression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli 
(E. coli). In the first part of this work, we used two recombinant proteins that 
could be easily detected by Western blotting in the soluble fraction of E. coli 
lysate in most of the 12 InFFact combinations. When these proteins were fused to 
GFP and used in the same experiment ("InFFact-GFP"), fluorescence signals proved 
as sensitive and reliable as those provided by Western blotting. A trend 
analysis based on Western blot signals or on fluorescence allowed finding 
expression conditions for successfully scaling up the production of both 
proteins. Thus, GFP allowed InFFact trend analysis to be performed without gel 
electrophoresis or Western blotting. In the second part, we compared the results 
obtained by InFFact and InFFact-GFP when two other recombinant proteins were 
used which, in contrast with the proteins used in the first part, were barely 
detectable by Western blotting. Surprisingly, InFFact-GFP but not InFFact was 
able to find expression conditions for successfully scaling up the production of 
both proteins, suggesting that GFP could increase the solubility of the fusion 
partner. In conclusion, GFP allowed InFFact to be performed without gel 
electrophoresis and with at least the same sensitivity and specificity as that 
of Western blotting.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.05.014
PMID: 18602837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Aug;39(8):1199-208. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-012-1127-8. Epub 2012 Apr 20.

Reduction of N-terminal methionylation while increasing titer by lowering 
metabolic and protein production rates in E. coli auto-induced fed-batch 
fermentation.

Xu J(1), Qian Y, Skonezny PM, You L, Xing Z, Meyers DS, Stankavage RJ, Pan SH, 
Li ZJ.

Author information:
(1)Biologics Process Science, Global Manufacturing and Supply, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, Syracuse, NY 13057, USA.

A standard fed-batch fermentation process using 1 mM isopropyl-β-D: 
-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) induction at 37 °C in complex batch and feed media 
had been developed for manufacturing of a therapeutic protein (TP) expressed in 
inclusion bodies (IBs) by E. coli BL21 (DE3) driven by T7 promoter. Six 
unauthentic TP N-terminal variants were identified, of which methionylated TP 
(Met-TP) ratio was predominant. We hypothesized that lowering metabolic and 
protein production rates would reduce the Met-TP ratio while improving TP titer. 
The standard process was surprisingly auto-induced without added IPTG due to 
galactose in the complex media. Without changing either the clone or the batch 
medium, a new process was developed using lower feed rates and auto-induction at 
29 °C after glucose depletion while increasing induction duration. In comparison 
to the standard process, the new process reduced the unauthentic Met-TP ratio 
from 23.6 to 9.6 %, increased the TP titer by 85 %, and the specific production 
yield from 210 to 330 mg TP per gram of dry cell weight. Furthermore, the TP 
recovery yield in the purified IBs was improved by ~20 %. Adding together, ~105 
% more TP recovered in the purified IBs from per liter of fermentation broth for 
the new process than the standard process. The basic principles of lowering 
metabolic and production rates should be applicable to other recombinant protein 
production in IBs by fed-batch fermentations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-012-1127-8
PMID: 22526331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Jul;84(1):38-46. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.04.010. Epub 
2012 Apr 28.

Electrostatic interaction-induced inclusion body formation of glucagon-like 
peptide-1 fused with ubiquitin and cationic tag.

Kim SG(1), Min WK, Rho YT, Seo JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Youngdong University, Chungbuk 370-701, 
Republic of Korea.

In an attempt to produce glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) using recombinant 
Escherichia coli, ubiquitin (Ub) as a fusion partner was fused to GLP-1 with the 
6-lysine tag (K6) for simple purification. Despite the high solubility of 
ubiquitin, the fusion protein K6UbGLP-1 was expressed mainly as insoluble 
inclusion bodies in E. coli. In order to elucidate this phenomenon, various N- 
and C-terminal truncates and GLP-1 mutants of K6UbGLP-1 were constructed and 
analyzed for their characteristics by various biochemical and biophysical 
methods. The experiment results obtained in this study clearly demonstrated that 
the insoluble aggregation of K6UbGLP-1 was attributed to the electrostatic 
interaction between the N-terminal 6-lysine tag and the C-terminal GLP-1 before 
the completion of folding which might be one of the reasons for protein 
misfolding frequently observed in many foreign proteins introduced with charged 
amino acid residues such as the His tag and the protease recognition sites. The 
application of a cation exchanger for neutralizing the positive charge of the 
6-lysine tag in solid-phase refolding of K6UbGLP-1 successfully suppressed the 
electrostatic interaction-driven aggregation even at a high protein 
concentration, resulting in properly folded K6UbGLP-1 for GLP-1 production.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.04.010
PMID: 22564875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2017 Aug;114(8):1753-1761. doi: 10.1002/bit.26299. Epub 2017 
May 18.

A bicistronic vector with destabilized mRNA secondary structure yields scalable 
higher titer expression of human neurturin in E. coli.

Roy V(1), Roth R(2), Berge M(1), Chitta R(1), Vajrala S(1), Kuntumalla S(3), E 
Schmelzer A(1), Schoner R(1).

Author information:
(1)Cell Culture and Fermentation Sciences, MedImmune, LLC, 1 MedImmune Way, 
Gaithersburg, Maryland, 20878.
(2)Innovative Medicines, AstraZeneca R&D, Mölndal, Sweden.
(3)Analytical Biotechnology, MedImmune, LLC, Gaithersburg, Maryland.

Human neurturin (NTN) is a cystine knot growth factor with potential therapeutic 
use in diseases such as Parkinson's and diabetes. Scalable high titer production 
of native NTN is particularly challenging because of the cystine knot structure 
which consists of an embedded ring comprised of at least three disulfide bonds. 
We sought to pursue enhanced scalable production of NTN in Escherichia coli. Our 
initial efforts focused on codon optimization of the first two codons following 
AUG, but these studies resulted in only a marginal increase in NTN expression. 
Therefore, we pursued an alternative strategy of using a bicistronic vector for 
NTN expression designed to reduce mRNA secondary structure to achieve increased 
ribosome binding and re-initiation. The first cistron was designed to prevent 
sequestration of the translation initiation region in a secondary conformation. 
The second cistron, which contained the NTN coding sequence itself, was 
engineered to disrupt double bonded base pairs and destabilize the secondary 
structure for ribosome re-initiation. The ensemble approach of reducing NTN's 
mRNA secondary structure and using the bicistronic vector had an additive effect 
resulting in significantly increased NTN expression. Our strain selection 
studies were conducted in a miniaturized bioreactor. An optimized strain was 
selected and scaled up to a 100 L fermentor, which yielded an inclusion body 
titer of 2 g/L. The inclusion bodies were refolded to yield active NTN. We 
believe that our strategy is applicable to other candidate proteins that are 
difficult-to-express due to stable mRNA secondary structures. Biotechnol. 
Bioeng. 2017;114: 1753-1761. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26299
PMID: 28369693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Mol Cells. 2015 Apr;38(4):318-26. doi: 10.14348/molcells.2015.2188. Epub 2015 
Feb 25.

Metabolic engineering for resveratrol derivative biosynthesis in Escherichia 
coli.

Jeong YJ(1), Woo SG(1), An CH(1)(2), Jeong HJ(1), Hong YS(3), Kim YM(4), Ryu 
YB(1), Rho MC(1), Lee WS(1), Kim CY(1).

Author information:
(1)Eco-friendly Bio-Material Research Center, Korea Research Institute of 
Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Jeongeup 580-185, Korea.
(2)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungnam National University, 
Daejeon 305-764, Korea.
(3)Chemical Biology Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology (KRIBB), Ochang 363-883, Korea.
(4)Department of Food Science and Technology and Functional Food Research 
Center, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 500-757, Korea.

We previously reported that the SbROMT3syn recombinant protein catalyzes the 
production of the methylated resveratrol derivatives pinostilbene and 
pterostilbene by methylating substrate resveratrol in recombinant E. coli. To 
further study the production of stilbene compounds in E. coli by the expression 
of enzymes involved in stilbene biosynthesis, we isolated three stilbene 
synthase (STS) genes from rhubarb, peanut, and grape as well as two resveratrol 
O-methyltransferase (ROMT) genes from grape and sorghum. The ability of RpSTS to 
produce resveratrol in recombinant E. coli was compared with other AhSTS and 
VrSTS genes. Out of three STS, only AhSTS was able to produce resveratrol from 
p-coumaric acid. Thus, to improve the solubility of RpSTS, VrROMT, and SbROMT3 
in E. coli, we synthesized the RpSTS, VrROMT and SbROMT3 genes following 
codon-optimization and expressed one or both genes together with the 
cinnamate/4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase (CCL) gene from Streptomyces coelicolor. 
Our HPLC and LC-MS analyses showed that recombinant E. coli expressing both 
ScCCL and RpSTSsyn led to the production of resveratrol when p-coumaric acid was 
used as the precursor. In addition, incorporation of SbROMT3syn in recombinant 
E. coli cells produced resveratrol and its mono-methylated derivative, 
pinostilbene, as the major products from p-coumaric acid. However, very small 
amounts of pterostilbene were only detectable in the recombinant E. coli cells 
expressing the ScCCL, RpSTSsyn and SbROMT3syn genes. These results suggest that 
RpSTSsyn exhibits an enhanced enzyme activity to produce resveratrol and 
SbROMT3syn catalyzes the methylation of resveratrol to produce pinostilbene in 
E. coli cells.

DOI: 10.14348/molcells.2015.2188
PMCID: PMC4400306
PMID: 25715927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Biotechniques. 2020 Sep;69(3):161-170. doi: 10.2144/btn-2020-0034. Epub 2020 Aug 
13.

Effect of different cloning strategies in pET-28a on solubility and 
functionality of a staphylococcal phage endolysin.

Tham HY(1), Song AA(1)(2), Yusoff K(1)(2), Tan GH(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biotechnology & Biomolecular Sciences, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Institute of Bioscience, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(3)Department of Agriculture Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, University 
Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.

Endolysins have been studied intensively as an alternative to antibiotics. In 
this study, endolysin derived from a phage which infects methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli 
pET28a. Initially, the endolysin was cloned using BamHI/XhoI, resulting in 
expression of a recombinant endolysin which was expressed in inclusion bodies. 
While solubilization was successful, the protein remained nonfunctional. 
Recloning the endolysin using NcoI/XhoI resulted in expression of soluble and 
functional proteins at 18°C. The endolysin was able to form halo zones on MRSA 
plates and showed a reduction in turbidity of MRSA growth. Therefore, cloning 
strategies should be chosen carefully even in an established expression system 
as they could greatly affect the functionality of the expressed protein.

DOI: 10.2144/btn-2020-0034
PMID: 32787565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. World J Gastroenterol. 2008 Oct 28;14(40):6244-8. doi: 10.3748/wjg.14.6244.

Immunogenicity and immunoprotection of recombinant PEB1 in 
Campylobacter-jejuni-infected mice.

Du LF(1), Li ZJ, Tang XY, Huang JQ, Sun WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Zhuhai Campus of Zunyi Medical College, Zhuhai 
519041, Guangdong Province, China.

AIM: To construct a prokaryotic expression vector carrying Campylobacter jejuni 
peb1A gene and express it in Escherichia coli. Immunoreactivity and antigenicity 
of rPEB1 were evaluated. The ability of rPEB1 to induce antibody responses and 
protective efficacy was identified.
METHODS: peb1A gene was amplified by PCR, target gene and prokaryotic expression 
plasmid pET28a (+) was digested with BamHI and XhoI, respectively. DNA was 
ligated with T4 DNA ligase to construct recombinant plasmid pET28a(+)-peb1A. The 
rPEB1 was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and identified by SDS-PAGE. BALB/c 
mice were immunized with rPEB1. ELISA was used to detect the specific antibody 
titer and MTT method was used to measure the stimulation index of spleen 
lymphocyte transformation.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid pET28a (+)-peb1A was correctly constructed. The 
expression output of PEB1 protein in pET28a (+)-peb1A system was approximately 
33% of total proteins in E. coli. The specific IgG antibody was detected in 
serum of BALB/c mice immunized with rPEB1 protein. Effective immunological 
protection with a lower sickness incidence and mortality was seen in the mice 
suffering from massive C. jejuni infection.
CONCLUSION: rPEB1 protein is a valuable candidate for C. jejuni subunit vaccine.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.14.6244
PMCID: PMC2761589
PMID: 18985818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. BMC Biotechnol. 2014 Jan 21;14:5. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-14-5.

Ubiquitin-like prokaryotic MoaD as a fusion tag for expression of heterologous 
proteins in Escherichia coli.

Yuan S, Wang X, Xu J, Yan Z, Wang N(1).

Author information:
(1)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Institute 
of Materia Medica, Beijing Key Laboratory of New Drug Mechanisms and 
Pharmacological Evaluation Study, Beijing, People's Republic of China. 
wangnan@imm.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Eukaryotic ubiquitin and SUMO are frequently used as tags to enhance 
the fusion protein expression in microbial host. They increase the solubility 
and stability, and protect the peptides from proteolytic degradation due to 
their stable and highly conserved structures. Few of prokaryotic ubiquitin-like 
proteins was used as fusion tags except ThiS, which enhances the fusion 
expression, however, reduces the solubility and stability of the expressed 
peptides in E. coli. Hence, we investigated if MoaD, a conserved small sulfur 
carrier in prokaryotes with the similar structure of ubiquitin, could also be 
used as fusion tag in heterologous expression in E. coli.
RESULTS: Fusion of MoaD to either end of EGFP enhanced the expression yield of 
EGFP with a similar efficacy of ThiS. However, the major parts of the fusion 
proteins were expressed in the aggregated form, which was associated with the 
retarded folding of EGFP, similar to ThiS fusions. Fusion of MoaD to insulin 
chain A or B did not boost their expression as efficiently as ThiS tag did, 
probably due to a less efficient aggregation of products. Interestingly, fusion 
of MoaD to the murine ribonuclease inhibitor enhanced protein expression by 
completely protecting the protein from intracellular degradation in contrast to 
ThiS fusion, which enhanced degradation of this unstable protein when expressed 
in E. coli.
CONCLUSIONS: Prokaryotic ubiquitin-like protein MoaD can act as a fusion tag to 
promote the fusion expression with varying mechanisms, which enriches the 
arsenal of fusion tags in the category of insoluble expression.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-14-5
PMCID: PMC3906898
PMID: 24444081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2016 Sep;12(9):2362-4. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2016.1171443. Epub 2016 Apr 8.

Salmonella flagellin acted as an effective fusion partner for expression of 
Plasmodium falciparum surface protein 25 in Escherichia coli.

Qian F(1), Li M(1), Chen Y(2), Jiang L(2), Xu H(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Rheumatology and Immunology , Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, 
Second Military Medical University , Shanghai , China.
(2)b Fourth Research Laboratory, Lanzhou Institute of Biological Products Co., 
Ltd. , Lanzhou , China.

Plasmodium falciparum surface protein 25 (Pfs25) is a hard-to-express and 
hard-to-solubilize protein in Escherichia coli. To overcome this problem, the 
phase 1 flagellin of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (FliC) was used as 
a fusion partner for Pfs25. The fusion expression of Pfs25 with FliC greatly 
enhanced the expression level and solubility of Pfs25 in E. coli BL21(DE3). The 
Ni-purified fusion protein of FliC-Pfs25 was recognized by two anti-Pfs25 
monoclonal antibodies. By comparison, it was shown that the Pfs25 within 
FliC-Pfs25 contained epitopes similar or identical to those on Pichia 
pastoris-produced Pfs25. The data obtained from this study demonstrated that the 
fusion with Salmonella flagellin greatly improved the expression of Pfs25 in E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2016.1171443
PMCID: PMC5027733
PMID: 27058511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Protein Expr Purif. 2022 Mar;191:106025. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.106025. Epub 
2021 Nov 24.

High level expression and purification of recombinant 3ABC non-structural 
protein of foot-and-mouth disease virus using SUMO fusion system.

Zia MA(1), Shah MS(2), Shafqat Ali Khan R(2), Farooq U(3), Shafi J(4), Habib 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Biological Sciences, Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology 
College, (NIAB-C), Pakistan Institute of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 
Nilore, 44000, Islamabad, Pakistan; Vaccine Development Group, Animal Sciences 
Division, Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology, Jhang Road, P.O Box 
128, Faisalabad, 38000, Pakistan. Electronic address: ashirzia68@gmail.com.
(2)College of Biological Sciences, Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology 
College, (NIAB-C), Pakistan Institute of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 
Nilore, 44000, Islamabad, Pakistan; Vaccine Development Group, Animal Sciences 
Division, Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology, Jhang Road, P.O Box 
128, Faisalabad, 38000, Pakistan.
(3)Animal Health Laboratories, Animal Sciences Institute, National Agricultural 
Research Centre, Islamabad, 45500, Pakistan.
(4)Livestock and Dairy Development, Faisalabad, 38040, Punjab, Pakistan.

The detection of antibody to non-structural protein (NSP) of Foot-and-mouth 
disease virus (FMDV) is the reliable diagnostic method for differentiating 
infected from vaccinated animals (DIVA). For this purpose, the detection of 
antibodies to non-structural 3ABC protein is suitable for identification of 
virus activity in the animals exposed to FMDV infection. However, large-scale 
production of recombinant 3ABC protein is challenging due to the formation of 
inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli and low yield due to protein aggregation 
during in vitro refolding. In this study, 3ABC gene was fused with SUMO (small 
ubiquitin-like modifiers) fusion system which significantly enhanced expression 
of recombinant 3ABC protein in E. coli. The solubility of the recombinant 
6xHis-SUMO 3ABC fusion protein was improved by mild detergent treatment and 
purified through Ni-NTA chromatography under non-denaturing conditions which 
yielded 9 mg protein obtained from 1-L bacterial fermentation culture. The 
diagnostic potential of recombinant 3ABC protein was also tested by ELISA that 
provided reliable diagnostic performance (DSn = 92%, DSp = 94%) upon comparison 
with commercially available kit. The thermal stability of fusion protein was 
also tested which presented reliable performance at different temperatures. In 
conclusion, we presented SUMO fusion for the enhanced expression in E. coli and 
purification of active recombinant 3ABC protein using non-denaturing conditions 
without refolding steps. This protein can be used as a suitable diagnostic 
antigen to detect antibodies following FMDV infection.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.106025
PMID: 34826607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Jul;40(7):705-13. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-013-1273-7. Epub 2013 Apr 26.

High-yield production of the VP1 structural protein epitope from serotype O 
foot-and-mouth disease virus in Escherichia coli.

Jung JG(1), Lee YJ, Velmurugan N, Ko YJ, Lee HS, Jeong KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic 
of Korea.

For effective control of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), the development of rapid 
diagnostic systems and vaccines are required against its etiological agent, FMD 
virus (FMDV). To accomplish this, efficient large-scale expression of the FMDV 
VP1 protein, with high solubility, needs to be optimized. We attempted to 
produce high levels of a serotype O FMDV VP1 epitope in Escherichia coli. We 
identified the subtype-independent serotype O FMDV VP1 epitope sequence and used 
it to construct a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein. For efficient 
production of the FMDV VP1 epitope fused to GST (VP1e-GST), four E. coli strains 
and three temperatures were examined. The conditions yielding the greatest level 
of VP1e-GST with highest solubility were achieved with E. coli BL21(DE3) at 
25 °C. For high-level production, fed-batch cultures were conducted in 5-l 
bioreactors. When cells were induced at a high density and complex feeding 
solutions were supplied, approximately 11 g of VP1e-GST was obtained from a 
2.9-l culture. Following purification, the VP1 epitope was used to immunize 
rabbits, and we confirmed that it induced an immune response.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-013-1273-7
PMID: 23619971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Protein Expr Purif. 2009 May;65(1):51-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.12.011. Epub 
2008 Dec 30.

A dual-functional E. coli vector for expressing recombinant protein with high 
solubility and antigen presentation ability.

Chuang CK(1), Su YS, Fan CT, Lee WC, Chen MY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology, Animal Technology Institute Taiwan, No. 52, Kedung 
2nd Rd., Chunan 35053, Miaoli, Taiwan. jkjuang@mail.atit.org.tw

A dual-functional Escherichia coli expression vector capable of producing 
soluble recombinant proteins with high immunogenicity in animals is introduced. 
This vector expresses polypeptides fused to a PTD-J-domain peptide. The J-domain 
peptide is derived from murine Hsp40 by using optimized codons for E. coli. The 
association of the J-domain to the nucleotide binding domain of the DnaK 
chaperone increases the probability that the fused polypeptide will be folded by 
the DnaK and hence increases the solubility of the recombinant protein. The 
PTD-J-domain can also enhance the immunogenicity of the fused chicken IGF-I 
polypeptide as well as an oligo-peptide derived from haptoglobin in rodents, 
possibly via the association with either the extracellular or intracellular 
Hsp70 proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.12.011
PMID: 19162194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Microb Cell Fact. 2011 Dec 23;10:112. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-112.

The order of expression is a key factor in the production of active 
transglutaminase in Escherichia coli by co-expression with its pro-peptide.

Liu S(1), Zhang D, Wang M, Cui W, Chen K, Du G, Chen J, Zhou Z.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Lihu Avenue, Wuxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Streptomyces transglutaminase (TGase) is naturally synthesized as 
zymogen (pro-TGase), which is then processed to produce active enzyme by the 
removal of its N-terminal pro-peptide. This pro-peptide is found to be essential 
for overexpression of soluble TGase in E. coli. However, expression of pro-TGase 
by E. coli requires protease-mediated activation in vitro. In this study, we 
developed a novel co- expression method for the direct production of active 
TGase in E. coli.
RESULTS: A TGase from S. hygroscopicus was expressed in E. coli only after 
fusing with the pelB signal peptide, but fusion with the signal peptide induced 
insoluble enzyme. Therefore, alternative protocol was designed by co-expressing 
the TGase and its pro-peptide as independent polypeptides under a single T7 
promoter using vector pET-22b(+). Although the pro-peptide was co-expressed, the 
TGase fused without the signal peptide was undetectable in both soluble and 
insoluble fractions of the recombinant cells. Similarly, when both genes were 
expressed in the order of the TGase and the pro-peptide, the solubility of TGase 
fused with the signal peptide was not improved by the co-expression with its 
pro-peptide. Interestingly, active TGase was only produced by the cells in which 
the pro-peptide and the TGase were fused with the signal peptide and 
sequentially expressed. The purified recombinant and native TGase shared the 
similar catalytic properties.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that the pro-peptide can assist correct 
folding of the TGase inter-molecularly in E. coli, and expression of pro-peptide 
prior to that of TGase was essential for the production of active TGase. The 
co-expression strategy based on optimizing the order of gene expression could be 
useful for the expression of other functional proteins that are synthesized as a 
precursor.

© 2011 Liu et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-112
PMCID: PMC3286405
PMID: 22196373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun. 2011 Sep 1;67(Pt 9):998-1005. 
doi: 10.1107/S1744309111017374. Epub 2011 Aug 13.

Immobilized metal-affinity chromatography protein-recovery screening is 
predictive of crystallographic structure success.

Choi R(1), Kelley A, Leibly D, Hewitt SN, Napuli A, Van Voorhis W.

Author information:
(1)Seattle Structural Genomics Center for Infectious Disease (SSGCID), USA.

The recombinant expression of soluble proteins in Escherichia coli continues to 
be a major bottleneck in structural genomics. The establishment of reliable 
protocols for the performance of small-scale expression and solubility testing 
is an essential component of structural genomic pipelines. The SSGCID Protein 
Production Group at the University of Washington (UW-PPG) has developed a 
high-throughput screening (HTS) protocol for the measurement of protein recovery 
from immobilized metal-affinity chromatography (IMAC) which predicts successful 
purification of hexahistidine-tagged proteins. The protocol is based on manual 
transfer of samples using multichannel pipettors and 96-well plates and does not 
depend on the use of robotic platforms. This protocol has been applied to 
evaluate the expression and solubility of more than 4000 proteins expressed in 
E. coli. The UW-PPG also screens large-scale preparations for recovery from IMAC 
prior to purification. Analysis of these results show that our low-cost 
non-automated approach is a reliable method for the HTS demands typical of large 
structural genomic projects. This paper provides a detailed description of these 
protocols and statistical analysis of the SSGCID screening results. The results 
demonstrate that screening for proteins that yield high recovery after IMAC, 
both after small-scale and large-scale expression, improves the selection of 
proteins that can be successfully purified and will yield a crystal structure.

DOI: 10.1107/S1744309111017374
PMCID: PMC3169392
PMID: 21904040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Jul;36(1):40-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.03.003.

High-throughput screening for soluble recombinant expressed kinases in 
Escherichia coli and insect cells.

Chambers SP(1), Austen DA, Fulghum JR, Kim WM.

Author information:
(1)Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc., 130 Waverly Street, Cambridge, MA 02139-4242, 
USA. chambers@vrtx.com

We have constructed a dual expression vector for the production of recombinant 
proteins in both Escherichia coli and insect cells. In this vector, the 
baculoviral polyhedrin promoter was positioned upstream of the bacteriophage T7 
promoter and the lac operator. This vector, designated pBEV, was specifically 
designed to exploit the advantages that both hosts would provide. This vector 
also facilitates one-stop cloning, thereby simplifying the expression process 
for automation, and the development of a high-throughput method for protein 
expression. Utilizing the multi-system vector pBEV, a high-throughput process 
was developed with expression in deep-well blocks and purification in 
micro-titer plates enabling the identification of expression and solubility in 
both E. coli and insect cells. In this study, using pBEV, we have successfully 
expressed and purified multiple human kinases produced in E. coli and insect 
cells. Our results validate expression screening as a strategy to rapidly triage 
proteins identifying the optimum expression system and conditions for 
production.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.03.003
PMID: 15177282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Biotechnol. 2008 Jul 31;135(4):333-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2008.05.007. Epub 
2008 May 27.

Hyper-acidic protein fusion partners improve solubility and assist correct 
folding of recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli.

Zou Z(1), Cao L, Zhou P, Su Y, Sun Y, Li W.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, North Zhongshan Road 
3663, Shanghai 200062, China. zrzou@bio.ecnu.edu.cn

High expression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli (E. coli) often 
leads to protein aggregation. One popular approach to address this problem is 
the use of fusion tags (or partners) that improve the solubility of the proteins 
in question. However, such fusion tags are not effective for all proteins. In 
this study, we demonstrate that the hyper-acidic protein fusion partners can 
largely enhance the soluble expression of target proteins recalcitrant to the 
efforts by using routine solubilising tags. This new type of fusion partners 
examined includes three extremely acidic E. coli polypeptides, i.e. yjgD, the 
N-terminal domain of rpoD (sigma 70 factor of RNA polymerase) and our 
preliminarily evaluated msyB. The target proteins used are highly 
aggregation-prone, including EK (the bovine enterokinase), TEV (the tobacco etch 
virus protease) and rbcL (the large subunit of tobacco ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate 
carboxylase/oxygenase). On removal in vitro and in vivo of the fusion tags by 
using yeast SUMO/Ulp1 reaction and TEV auto-cleavage, the resultant findings 
indicate the hyper-acidic fusion partners can function as intramolecular 
chaperones assisting in the correct folding of the target proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2008.05.007
PMID: 18599143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Feb;30(2):167-70.

[Expression of HPV16 E7 protein and preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang B(1), Tu J, Lv Y, Hou B, Liu Q, Lin X, Chen S, Xue X, Zhu S, Zhang L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Virology and Immunology, Department of Medical 
Microbiology and Immunology, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325000, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare a prokaryotic expression vector carrying E7 protein of 
human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 and a polyclonal antibody against it.
METHODS: The HPV16 E7 gene was amplified by PCR from the tissue samples of 
cervical cancer and cloned into the pET21a(+) prokaryotic expression vector. The 
constructed pET21a(+)/HPV16 E7 recombinant plasmid was transformed into E.coli 
BL21(DE3) and induced by isopropyl beta-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). The 
recombinant protein of HPV16 E7 was purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography 
and confirmed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis. To prepare the polyclonal 
antibody, the rabbits were immunized with the purified recombinant protein HPV16 
E7. The titers of specific antibodies were detected by ELISA. The specificity 
activity was further detected by Western blotting and immunofluorescence 
analysis.
RESULTS: HPV16 E7 recombinant protein was expressed and purified in the 
prokaryotic expression system. The polyclonal antibodies were produced in the 
rabbits immunized with the recombinant protein. The titer of specific antibodies 
was up to 1:30 000. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis indicated 
that the polyclonal antibody could specifically recognize the HPV16 E7 protein.
CONCLUSION: HPV16 E7 recombinant protein was successfully expressed and its 
polyclonal antibody was prepared.

PMID: 24491058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2022 Jan 31. doi: 10.1002/bit.28048. Online ahead of print.

Enhancing biosynthesis of 2'-Fucosyllactose in Escherichia coli through 
engineering lactose operon for lactose transport and α -1,2-Fucosyltransferase 
for solubility.

Park BS(1)(2), Choi YH(2)(3), Kim MW(2)(3), Park BG(1)(2), Kim EJ(4), Kim 
JY(2)(3), Kim JH(1)(3), Kim BG(1)(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Interdisciplinary Program for Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Bio-MAX/N-Bio Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Institute for Sustainable Development (ISD), Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea.

2'-Fucosyllactose (2'-FL) is the most abundant oligosaccharide in human milk and 
one of the most actively studied human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs). When 2'-FL 
is produced through biological production using a microorganism, like 
Escherichia coli, d-lactose is often externally fed as an acceptor substrate for 
fucosyltransferase (FT). When d-glucose is used as a carbon source for the cell 
growth and d-lactose is transported by lactose permease (LacY) in lac operon, 
d-lactose transport is under the control of catabolite repression (CR), limiting 
the supply of d-lactose for FT reaction in the cell, hence decreasing the 
production of 2'-FL. In this study, a remarkable increase of 2'-FL production 
was achieved by relieving the CR from the lac operon of the host E. coli BL21 
and introducing adequate site-specific mutations into α-1,2-FT (FutC) for 
enhancement of catalytic activity and solubility. For the host engineering, the 
native lac promoter (Plac ) was substituted for tac promoter (Ptac ), so that 
the lac operon could be turned on, but not subjected to CR by high d-glucose 
concentration. Next, for protein engineering of FutC, family multiple sequence 
analysis for conserved amino acid sequences and protein-ligand substrate docking 
analysis led us to find several mutation sites, which could increase the 
solubility of FutC and its activity. As a result, a combination of four mutation 
sites (F40S/Q150H/C151R/Q239S) was identified as the best candidate, and the 
quadruple mutant of FutC enhanced 2'-FL titer by 2.4-fold. When the 
above-mentioned E. coli mutant host transformed with the quadruple mutant of 
futC was subjected to fed-batch culture, 40 g l-1 of 2'-FL titer was achieved 
with the productivity of 0.55 g l-1 h-1 and the specific 2'-FL yield of 
1.0 g g-1 dry cell weight.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.28048
PMID: 35099812


287. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jul;28(7):715-7, 721.

[Prokaryotic expression of recombinant prochymosin gene and its antiserum 
preparation].

[Article in Chinese]

Li XP(1), Liu HH, Pu Y, Zhang FC, Li YJ.

Author information:
(1)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering, 
College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi 830046, 
China. lxyxp@sina.cn

AIM: To optimize the prochymosin (pCHY) gene codons and express the gene in 
Escherichia coli (E.coli), and to prepare its antiserum and detect chymosin 
protein specifically.
METHODS: According to codon usage bias of E.coli, prochymosin gene sequence was 
synthesized based on the conserved sequences of prochymosin gene from bovine, 
lamb and camel, and then cloned into the plasmid pET-30a and 
pcDNA3-AAT-COMP-C3d3 (pcD-ACC), respectively. pET-30a-pCHY was expressed, as the 
detected antigen, in E.coli BL21(DE3) after IPTG induction. RT-PCR was used to 
detect prochymosin mRNA expression in liver from the mice injected 
pcDNA3-AAT-COMP-pCHY-C3d3(pACCC) by hydrodynamics-based transfection method. To 
prepare the antiserum of prochymosin, pACCC and GST-pCHY proteins were used to 
immunize New Zealand rabbits in accordance with DNA prime-protein boost 
strategy. Antibody levels were tested by ELISA.
RESULTS: Western blotting showed the molecular weight of His-pCHY protein was 
about 55 000, similar to the expected molecular size. ELISA demonstrated that 
the titer level of prochymosin antiserum was high.
CONCLUSION: Based on the codon optimization, we have obtained high-titer 
prochymosin antiserum through DNA vaccine vector pcD-ACC combined with DNA 
prime-protein boost strategy, similar to that by protein vaccine.

PMID: 22768861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2009 Aug;17(8):589-93.

[Expression, purification and polyclonal antibody preparation for a novel gene 
BC097361].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Q(1), Liang YL, Wei HS, Xing HC, Cheng J, Lan MD, Zhang B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Infectious Diseases, Beijing Ditan Hospital, Beijing 100011, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify of the BC097361 recombinant protein, and to 
prepare the BC097361 specific rabbit polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: BC097361 cDNA was ligated into the prokaryotic expressive vector 
pET-32a (+), and the resulting plasmid was transformed into E.coli BL21 (DE3). 
The protein expression was induced with IPTG and the protein was analyzed with 
SDS-PAGE and western blotting. The expressed product was purified using Ni+ 
affinity column chromatography.Then the purified pET-32a (+) -BC097361 fusion 
protein was used to immunize New Zealand rabbits to gain polyclonal antibody. 
The specificity and potency of polyclonal antibody were evaluated by Western 
blot and ELISA.
RESULTS: The BC097361 fusion protein was highly expressed.The protein was mainly 
in the inclusion body. ELISA indicated the titer of polyclonal antibody more 
than 1:320000. The high specificity was confirmed with Western blot.
CONCLUSIONS: The recombinant BC097361 fusion protein and the BC097361 specific 
polyclonal antibody will be valuable tools for the investigation on the 
biological function of BC097361.

PMID: 19719916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2011 Sep;34(7):833-9. doi: 10.1007/s00449-011-0533-z. 
Epub 2011 Mar 16.

Polycationic amino acid tags enhance soluble expression of Candida antarctica 
lipase B in recombinant Escherichia coli.

Jung HJ(1), Kim SK, Min WK, Lee SS, Park K, Park YC, Seo JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology and Center for Agricultural 
Biomaterials, Seoul National University, Seoul, 151-921, Korea.

Lipase (EC 3.1.1.3) is a popular enzyme used as an ingredient in detergents and 
biocatalyst in many biochemical reactions. Lipase is usually expressed in 
Escherichia coli as an inactive inclusion body and at a low level. In this 
study, Candida antarctica lipase B (CalB) was fused with various polycationic 
amino acid tags and expressed in E. coli in order to increase a soluble 
expression level. By induction with 1.0 mM IPTG, the authentic and fused CalBs 
were expressed at 27-56% of total protein. The 10-arginine and 10-lysine tags 
fused at the C-terminal of CalB significantly increased the solubility of CalB 
by five- to ninefold, relative to the case of the authentic CalB expressed in a 
recombinant E. coli Origami 2™ (DE3) strain. Among a series of the C-terminal 
poly-arginine tags, the recombinant CalB combined with the 10-arginine tag 
(CalB-R10) possessed the highest lipase specific activity of 9.5 ± 0.03 U/mg 
protein, corresponding to a fourfold enhancement compared with the authentic 
CalB.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-011-0533-z
PMID: 21409451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Aug;97(15):6779-91. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-012-4559-1. Epub 2012 Nov 20.

The novel Fh8 and H fusion partners for soluble protein expression in 
Escherichia coli: a comparison with the traditional gene fusion technology.

Costa SJ(1), Almeida A, Castro A, Domingues L, Besir H.

Author information:
(1)IBB - Institute for Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Centre of Biological 
Engineering, Universidade do Minho, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057, Portugal, 
Portugal.

The Escherichia coli host system is an advantageous choice for simple and 
inexpensive recombinant protein production but it still presents bottlenecks at 
expressing soluble proteins from other organisms. Several efforts have been 
taken to overcome E. coli limitations, including the use of fusion partners that 
improve protein expression and solubility. New fusion technologies are emerging 
to complement the traditional solutions. This work evaluates two novel fusion 
partners, the Fh8 tag (8 kDa) and the H tag (1 kDa), as solubility enhancing 
tags in E. coli and their comparison to commonly used fusion partners. A broad 
range comparison was conducted in a small-scale screening and subsequently 
scaled-up. Six difficult-to-express target proteins (RVS167, SPO14, YPK1, YPK2, 
Frutalin and CP12) were fused to eight fusion tags (His, Trx, GST, MBP, NusA, 
SUMO, H and Fh8). The resulting protein expression and solubility levels were 
evaluated by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis before 
and after protein purification and after tag removal. The Fh8 partner improved 
protein expression and solubility as the well-known Trx, NusA or MBP fusion 
partners. The H partner did not function as a solubility tag. Cleaved proteins 
from Fh8 fusions were soluble and obtained in similar or higher amounts than 
proteins from the cleavage of other partners as Trx, NusA or MBP. The Fh8 fusion 
tag therefore acts as an effective solubility enhancer, and its low molecular 
weight potentially gives it an advantage over larger solubility tags by offering 
a more reliable assessment of the target protein solubility when expressed as a 
fusion protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-012-4559-1
PMID: 23160981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2012 Mar;37(3):290-5. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2012.03.014.

[Prokaryotic expression and immunogenicity of the chimeric HBcAg containing 
Aβ(1-15)].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng G(1), Jin H, Wang W, Qian Y, Wang Q, Yang G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Histo/Embryology, School of Medicine, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061,China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant prokaryoticexpression plasmid pET/ 
c-Aβ(15)-c, and evaluate the immunogenicity of its encoded fusion protein as 
expressed in E.coli.
METHODS: The gene fragment HBc88-144 was amplified by PCR and subcloned to 
pUC19. The synthetic, double-strand Aβ(1-15) gene was inserted downstream of 
HBc1-71 in pGEMEX/c1-71. After restriction enzyme digestion, c1-71- Aβ(15) was 
spliced to HBc88-144, yielding the recombinant gene c-Aβ(15)-c; that gene was 
subcloned into pET-28a(+). The fusion protein (CA15C) expressed in the 
transformed E.coli BL21 was induced with isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside 
(IPTG) and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The virus-like particle (VLP) formed by fusion 
protein CA15C was observed with transmission electric microscope (TEM). Four 
Kunming (KM) mice were given intraperitoneal injections of CA15C, and the 
anti-Aβ antibody elicited was detected by indirect ELISA.
RESULTS: The sequence of the recombinant gene was confirmed by restriction 
enzyme digestion and DNA sequencing. After IPTG induction, the fusion protein 
was expressed, mainly in the sediment from the bacterial lysate. The expression 
level was 40% of total protein in the sediment. The CA15C could form VLP. After 
5 rounds of immunization, the titer of anti-Aβ antibody in the sera of KM mice 
reached 1:10000, while the anti-HBc antibody was undetectable.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant c-Aβ(15)-c gene can be expressed in E.coli. The 
expressed protein can form VLPs and has a strong immunogenicity.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2012.03.014
PMID: 22561498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;29(9):945-8.

[Cloning and expression of human pcsk9 cDNA and preparation of its polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Li F(1), Yu H, Song J, Liu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct the prokaryotic expression vector of human proprotein 
convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9), induce it to express and prepare the 
polyclonal antibody of human pcsk9.
METHODS: The sequence of pcsk9 cDNA was synthesized and amplied by PCR. By means 
of digestion and subcloning, the sequence was cloned into the expression vector 
PET-28b. The recombinant plasmid of pET-28b-pcsk9 was transformed into the 
competent cells of E.coli BL21 (DE3), induced to express, purified and 
identified. The New Zealand rabbits were immunized with the purified protein. 
The resulted polyclonal antibody was analyzed by ELISA and Western blotting.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression vector PET-28b-pcsk9 was constructed and 
expressed well in E.coli BL21 (DE3). We obtained the polyclonal antibody by 
immunizing the rabbits with the target protein. The purified antibody was proved 
to have a good specificity by Western blotting and its titer reached 1:13 200.
CONCLUSION: The expression vector of pcsk9 was successfully constructed and 
expressed. The polycolonal antibody of pcsk9 protein was obtained as well.

PMID: 24011156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Sep;28(9):960-3.

[Expression and purification of mucin 16 and preparation and characterization of 
anti-mucin 16 monoclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang Y(1), Ding YT, Gong HT, Yu ZJ, Li XT.

Author information:
(1)Hybridoma and Antibody Center, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, 
Xiamen, China. jamesyangyun1@126.com

AIM: To generate monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against mucin 16 using purified 
recombinant protein of human mucin 16 N terminus with His tag (His-mucin 16N) as 
the antigen.
METHODS: Mucin 16 N terminus was cloned into a prokaryotic expression vector 
pET-32. His-mucin 16N was then expressed in E.coli and purified by the affinity 
chromotography. Cell fusion was performed after the BALB/c mice were immunized 
with the purified His-mucin 16N protein. We screened hybridoma cell strains 
producing mAbs against mucin 16. The specificity and titer of the antibodies 
were characterized with ELISA, Western blotting, immunofluorescent and 
immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: The recombinant protein of His-mucin 16N was expressed and purified. A 
few hybridoma cell strains which could secrete specific mAbs against mucin 16 
were obtained, and one anti-mucin 16 mAb with good specificity and high titer 
was selected and purified. The isotype of this anti-mucin 16 mAb was determined 
as IgG1, which indicated that this anti-mucin 16 mAb could be used for ELISA, 
Western blotting, immunofluorescent and immunohistochemical staining. The 
endogenous expression of mucin 16 in various cancer cell lines or tissues was 
also examined with this anti-mucin 16 antibody by Western blotting and other 
immunoassays.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant protein of His-mucin 16N was expressed and purified 
successfully, with which we prepared anti-mucin 16 mAb with good specificity and 
high titer.

PMID: 22980662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2406:93-111. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_5.

Protein Expression Optimization Strategies in E. coli: A Tailored Approach in 
Strain Selection and Parallelizing Expression Conditions.

Tang SR(1), Somasundaram B(1), Lua LHL(2).

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression Facility, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(2)Protein Expression Facility, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia. l.lua@uq.edu.au.

Escherichia coli remains a traditional and widely used host organism for 
recombinant protein production. Its well-studied genome, availability of vectors 
and strains, cheap and relatively straight-forward cultivation methods paired 
with reported high protein yields are reasons why E. coli is often the 
first-choice host expression system for recombinant protein production. The 
chapter enclosed here details protocols and design strategies in strain 
selection and methods on how to parallelize expression conditions to optimize 
for soluble target protein expression in E. coli. The methods described have 
been validated in a protein production research facility.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_5
PMID: 35089552


295. J Biomol Tech. 2009 Dec;20(5):241-8.

A pair of ligation-independent Escherichia coli expression vectors for rapid 
addition of a polyhistidine affinity tag to the N- or C-termini of recombinant 
proteins.

Dan H(1), Balachandran A, Lin M.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Food Inspection Agency, Ottawa Laboratory (Fallowfield), Ontario, 
Canada.

6x His tag is one of the most widely used affinity fusion tags that facilitates 
detection and purification of recombinant proteins. However, the location of 
this tag within a particular type of protein may influence the expression, 
solubility, and bioactivity of the protein, and the optimal location needs to be 
determined experimentally. To provide a tool for rapid generation of 6x His tags 
at the N- or C-terminus of any recombinant protein, we have constructed a pair 
of Escherichia coli expression vectors-pLIC-NHis and pLIC-CHis-based on the 
pET30a vector, for ligation-independent cloning (LIC). Construction of this new 
pair of LIC vectors was accomplished by replacement of the multiple cloning site 
of pET30a with two specifically designed LIC cloning sites. A target gene 
derived by PCR with a pair of predesigned primers can be inserted into the LIC 
site of pLIC-NHis for expression of recombinant proteins fused with the 
N-terminal sequence MHHHHHHG or into that of pLIC-CHis for expression of 
recombinant proteins with the C-terminal sequence THHHHHH. Successful expression 
of two normal mammalian prion proteins and five bacterial proteins in E. coli 
using this pair of LIC vectors reveals that these vectors are valuable tools for 
the production of recombinant His-tagged proteins in E. coli.

PMCID: PMC2777343
PMID: 19949695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. BMC Biotechnol. 2014 Jun 7;14:53. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-14-53.

Cultivation to improve in vivo solubility of overexpressed arginine deiminases 
in Escherichia coli and the enzyme characteristics.

Wang Y, Li YZ(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, School of Life Science, 
Shandong University, Jinan 250100, P, R, China. lilab@sdu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of foreign genes in Escherichia coli cells is an 
efficient means to obtain recombinant proteins. The technique is, however, often 
hampered by misfolding, degradation, aggregation and formation in inclusion 
bodies of products.
RESULTS: In this study, we reported that in vivo solubility of overexpressed 
arginine deiminases (ADI) improved by changing the cultivation conditions. ADI 
is enzymes that convert L-arginine to L-citrulline. After codon optimization, we 
synthesized the ADI gene of Pseudomonas putida and constructed it for 
overexpression in E. coli cells. The rADI products were mainly in inclusion body 
forms. We performed a series of optimization to enhance solubility of the 
protein. Co-expression with the GroES-GroEL chaperone team increased 
approximately 5-fold of the rADI activity. In addition the combination of 
L-arginine and D-glucose in the Luria-Bertani (LB) growth medium further 
increased the total activity to about 15 times. Separate L-arginine and 
D-glucose or the addition of other saccharides or amino acids had no such 
effects. The solubilization effects of the combination of L-arginine and 
D-glucose were further confirmed in the overexpression of another ADI from 
Listeria welshimeri. The enzymatic and conversion characteristics of the rADI 
products were further determined.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined addition of L-arginine and D-glucose in the LB medium 
significantly improved in vivo solubility of rADI proteins. The present study 
suggested a new strategy to increase the solubilization of overexpressed 
recombinant proteins in E. coli cells.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-14-53
PMCID: PMC4072490
PMID: 24908259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;498:157-72. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-196-3_11.

Hexahistidine-tagged maltose-binding protein as a fusion partner for the 
production of soluble recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli.

Austin BP(1), Nallamsetty S, Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for CancerResearch, 
National Cancer Institute at Frederick, Frederick, MD, USA.

Insolubility of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli is a major impediment 
to their production for structural and functional studies. One way to circumvent 
this problem is to fuse an aggregation-prone protein to a highly soluble 
partner. E. coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) has emerged as one of the most 
effective solubilizing agents. In this chapter, we describe how to construct 
combinatorially-tagged His(6)MBP fusion proteins by recombinational cloning and 
how to evaluate their yield and solubility. We also describe a procedure to 
determine how efficiently a His(6)MBP fusion protein is cleaved by tobacco etch 
virus (TEV) protease in E. coli and a method to assess the solubility of the 
target protein after it has been separated from His(6)MBP.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-196-3_11
PMID: 18988025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2004 Nov;20(6):671-4.

[Construction of recombinant plasmid pYTA/Abeta-HBcAg and its expression in 
E.coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng GF(1), Hu HT, Dong WJ, Wang QY, Yang GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Medical College, Xi'an Jiaotong University, 
Xi'an 710061, China. fenggaifeng@163.com

AIM: To study the expression of fusion gene Abeta-HBcAg in E.coli and detect the 
immunogenicity of fusion protein Abeta-HBcAg.
METHODS: The Abeta-HBcAg fusion gene was cut from recombinant plasmid 
pBV220/Abeta-HBcAg, and was inserted into the plasmid pYTA1 to construct 
recombinant plasmid pYTA/Abeta-HBcAg. The recombinant plasmid was transformed 
into E.coli DH5alpha, and expressed under IPTG induction. The expression of the 
fusion protein Abeta-HBcAg was detected by SDS-PAGE. The antigenicity of the 
fusion protein was detected by ELISA. BALB/c mice were immunized 
intraperitoneally with the fusion protein purified by salting out with saturate 
ammonium sulfate. The titers of anti- Abeta antibodies of the immunized mice was 
evaluated by ELISA.
RESULTS: Fusion protein existed in supernatant of the bacteria lysate and its 
expression level was about 7% of the total bacteria protein. The fusion protein 
reacted with both Abeta and HBcAg. The highest titer of anti-Abeta antibodies 
could reach to 1:16 000 after immunization for 3 times.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant gene Abeta-HBcAg can be expressed in E.coli DH5alpha. 
The expression protein exists in supernatant of the bacteria lysate and has good 
immunogenicity. This study lays the foundation for the experimental animal study 
of AD gene-engineering vaccine.

PMID: 15555431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Microb Cell Fact. 2015 Jan 16;14:8. doi: 10.1186/s12934-015-0192-x.

High crude violacein production from glucose by Escherichia coli engineered with 
interactive control of tryptophan pathway and violacein biosynthetic pathway.

Fang MY(1), Zhang C(2), Yang S(3), Cui JY(4), Jiang PX(5), Lou K(6), Wachi M(7), 
Xing XH(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 10084, 
China. fangmingyue88@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 10084, 
China. chongzhang@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Qingdao Agriculture University, Qingdao, 266109, 
China. yangsong15@hotmail.com.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Qingdao Agriculture University, Qingdao, 266109, 
China. cuijinyu212@hotmail.com.
(5)Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing, 10084, China. 
jpx@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Microbiology, Xinjiang Academy of Agricultural Science, Urumqi, 
830000, China. loukai02@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Bioengineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, 
226-8503, Japan. mwachi@bio.titech.ac.jp.
(8)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 10084, 
China. xhxing@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: As bacteria-originated crude violacein, a natural indolocarbazole 
product, consists of violacein and deoxyviolacein, and can potentially be a new 
type of natural antibiotics, the reconstruction of an effective metabolic 
pathway for crude violacein (violacein and deoxyviolacein mixture) synthesis 
directly from glucose in Escherichia coli was of importance for developing 
industrial production process.
RESULTS: Strains with a multivariate module for varied tryptophan productivities 
were firstly generated by combinatorial knockout of trpR/tnaA/pheA genes and 
overexpression of two key genes trpEfbr /trpD from the upstream tryptophan 
metabolic pathway. Then, the gene cluster of violacein biosynthetic pathway was 
introduced downstream of the generated tryptophan pathway. After combination of 
these two pathways, maximum crude violacein production directly from glucose by 
E. coli B2/pED+pVio was realized with a titer of 0.6±0.01 g L(-1) in flask 
culture, which was four fold higher than that of the control without the 
tryptophan pathway up-regulation. In a 5-L bioreactor batch fermentation with 
glucose as the carbon source, the recombinant E. coli B2/pED+pVio exhibited a 
crude violacein titer of 1.75 g L(-1) and a productivity of 36 mg L(-1) h(-1), 
which was the highest titer and productivity reported so far under the similar 
culture conditions without tryptophan addition.
CONCLUSION: Metabolic pathway analysis using 13C labeling illustrated that the 
up-regulated tryptophan supply enhanced tryptophan metabolism from glucose, 
whereas the introduction of violacein pathway drew more carbon flux from glucose 
to tryptophan, thereby contributing to the effective production of crude 
violacein in the engineered E. coli cell factory.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-015-0192-x
PMCID: PMC4306242
PMID: 25592762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Jun;35(2):397-403. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.02.016.

Optimised expression in Escherichia coli and purification of the functional form 
of the Bacillus thuringiensis Cry4Aa delta-endotoxin.

Boonserm P(1), Pornwiroon W, Katzenmeier G, Panyim S, Angsuthanasombat C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, Institute of Molecular Biology and 
Genetics, Mahidol University, Salaya Campus, Nakornpathom 73170, Thailand.

Achieving high-level expression of the Bacillus thuringiensis Cry4Aa 
mosquito-larvicidal protein was demonstrated. The 130-kDa Cry4Aa protoxin was 
overexpressed as an inclusion body in Escherichia coli under the control of the 
tac promoter together with the cry4Ba promoter. The solubility of the toxin 
inclusions in carbonate buffer, pH 10.0, was markedly enhanced at a cultivation 
temperature of 30 degrees C. Elimination of the tryptic cleavage site at Arg-235 
in the loop between helices 5 and 6 still retained the high-level toxicity of E. 
coli cells expressing the Cry4Aa mutant against Aedes aegypti larvae. Trypsin 
digestion of the R235Q mutant protoxin produced a protease-resistant fragment of 
ca. 65kDa. A homogeneous product of the 65-kDa trypsin-treated R203Q protein was 
obtained after size-exclusion chromatography that would pave the way for the 
further crystallisation and X-ray crystallographic studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.02.016
PMID: 15135419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. World J Gastroenterol. 2005 May 28;11(20):3060-4. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i20.3060.

Expression and purification of the complete PreS region of hepatitis B Virus.

Deng Q(1), Kong YY, Xie YH, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell 
Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.

AIM: To express the complete PreS region of HBV in E.coli with good solubility 
and stability, and to establish an effective method for purification of the 
recombinant PreS protein.
METHODS: The complete PreS region (PreS1 and PreS2) was fused into a series of 
tags including glutathione S-transferase (GST), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), 
maltose binding protein (MBP), 6x histidine, chitin binding domain (CBD), and 
thioredoxin, respectively. Expression of recombinant PreS fusion proteins was 
examined by SDS-PAGE analysis and confirmed by Western blot. Two fusion 
proteins, thio-PreS, and PreS-CBD, with desirable solubility and stability, were 
subjected to affinity purification and further characterization.
RESULTS: Recombinant PreS fusion proteins could be synthesized with good yields 
in E.coli. However, most of these proteins except for thio-PreS and PreS-CBD 
were vulnerable to degradation or insoluble as revealed by SDS-PAGE and Western 
blot. Thio-PreS could be purified by affinity chromatography with 
nickel-chelating sepharose as the matrix. However, some impurities were also 
co-purified. A simple freeze-thaw treatment yielded most of the thio-PreS 
proteins in solution while the impurities were in the precipitate. Purified 
thio-PreS protein was capable of inhibiting the binding of HBV virion to a 
specific monoclonal antibody against an epitope within the PreS1 domain.
CONCLUSION: Increased solubility and stability of the complete PreS region 
synthesized in E.coli can be achieved by fusion with the thioredoxin or the CBD 
tag. A simple yet highly effective method has been established for the 
purification of the thio-PreS protein. Purified thio-PreS protein likely assumes 
a native conformation, which makes it an ideal candidate for studying the 
structure of the PreS region as well as for screening antivirals.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i20.3060
PMCID: PMC4305840
PMID: 15918190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2019 Mar;42(3):465-474. doi: 10.1007/s00449-018-2050-9. 
Epub 2018 Nov 28.

Evaluation of multiple fused partners on enhancing soluble level of 
prenyltransferase NovQ in Escherichia coli.

Ni W(1)(2), Liu H(1), Wang P(1), Wang L(1), Sun X(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2), Zhao 
G(3), Zheng Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of High Magnetic Field and Ion Beam Physical Biology, Hefei 
Institutes of Physical Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei, 230031, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, 230026, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Key Laboratory of High Magnetic Field and Ion Beam Physical Biology, Hefei 
Institutes of Physical Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei, 230031, 
People's Republic of China. zhgh327@126.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of High Magnetic Field and Ion Beam Physical Biology, Hefei 
Institutes of Physical Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei, 230031, 
People's Republic of China. zhengzhiming2014@163.com.

To obtain the soluble production of recombinant NovQ, it has been constructed 
into the pET28a system. Unfortunately, NovQ was mostly accumulated as inclusion 
bodies and existed in insoluble fractions of E. coli cell lysate. Four partners, 
namely His6, TrxA, GST and MBP, were investigated in fusion expression and 
co-expression to achieve soluble expression in E. coli strains BL21 (DE3) and 
Rosetta™ (DE3). MBP fusion expression revealed a forceful function in enhancing 
solubility compared with others, in which the soluble protein was approximately 
70% of the total cellular proteins in E. coli. Improvement of rare tRNA 
abundance promoted the yield of total recombinant protein and the expression 
level of soluble protein. Besides, one-step purification method was applied and 
the purity of recombinant protein obtained using Ni-NTA resin was over 90%, 
where soluble recombinant MBP-NovQ was cleaved using TEV protease in vitro. This 
method could be an ideal method for soluble expression of ABBA 
prenyltransferases in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-018-2050-9
PMID: 30488320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Microb Cell Fact. 2009 Jul 24;8:41. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-8-41.

Rare codon content affects the solubility of recombinant proteins in a codon 
bias-adjusted Escherichia coli strain.

Rosano GL(1), Ceccarelli EA.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Division, Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular de 
Rosario (IBR), CONICET, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquímicas y Farmacéuticas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Suipacha 531, S2002LRK Rosario, Argentina. 
ceccarelli@ibr.gov.ar.

BACKGROUND: The expression of heterologous proteins in Escherichia coli is 
strongly affected by codon bias. This phenomenon occurs when the codon usage of 
the mRNA coding for the foreign protein differs from that of the bacterium. The 
ribosome pauses upon encountering a rare codon and may detach from the mRNA, 
thereby the yield of protein expression is reduced. Several bacterial strains 
have been engineered to overcome this effect. However, the increased rate of 
translation may lead to protein misfolding and insolubilization. In order to 
prove this assumption, the solubility of several recombinant proteins from 
plants was studied in a codon bias-adjusted E. coli strain.
RESULTS: The expression of eight plant proteins in Escherichia coli 
BL21(DE3)-pLysS and BL21(DE3)-CodonPlus-pRIL was systematically studied. The 
CodonPlus strain contains extra copies of the argU, ileY, and leuW tRNA genes, 
which encode tRNAs that recognize the codons AGA/AGG, AUA and CUA, respectively 
(RIL codons). The level of expression and solubility of the recombinant proteins 
were analyzed by means of sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis and Western blotting. We found that for all proteins the 
solubility was at least 25% in the BL21(DE3)-pLysS strain. However, when 
expressed in the BL21(DE3)-CodonPlus-pRIL strain, proteins having more than 5% 
of amino acids coded by RIL codons were localized mainly in the insoluble 
fraction. Also, their expression caused retarded growth and low cell yield in 
the codon bias-adjusted strain at all temperatures tested. On the contrary, the 
solubility of proteins containing less than 5% of amino acids coded by RIL 
codons remained unchanged in both strains and their expression caused no effect 
on cell growth.
CONCLUSION: Our results show that the expression of heterologous proteins coded 
by high RIL codon content coding sequences in a codon bias-adjusted strain is 
detrimental for their solubility. Our data support the hypothesis that the 
possible elimination of translational pauses that increase translation rate 
leads to protein misfolding and aggregation. This stresses the importance of 
strain selection according to codon content in any scheme where a large amount 
of biologically active product is desirable.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-8-41
PMCID: PMC2723077
PMID: 19630980


304. BMC Genomics. 2005 Apr 2;6:49. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-6-49.

How to find soluble proteins: a comprehensive analysis of alpha/beta hydrolases 
for recombinant expression in E. coli.

Koschorreck M(1), Fischer M, Barth S, Pleiss J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Technical Biochemistry, Allmandring 31, 70569 Stuttgart, Gemany. 
Markus.Koschorreck@itb.uni-stuttgart.de

BACKGROUND: In screening of libraries derived by expression cloning, expression 
of active proteins in E. coli can be limited by formation of inclusion bodies. 
In these cases it would be desirable to enrich gene libraries for coding 
sequences with soluble gene products in E. coli and thus to improve the 
efficiency of screening. Previously Wilkinson and Harrison showed that 
solubility can be predicted from amino acid composition (Biotechnology 1991, 
9(5):443-448). We have applied this analysis to members of the alpha/beta 
hydrolase fold family to predict their solubility in E. coli. alpha/beta 
hydrolases are a highly diverse family with more than 1800 proteins which have 
been grouped into homologous families and superfamilies.
RESULTS: The predicted solubility in E. coli depends on hydrolase size, 
phylogenetic origin of the host organism, the homologous family and the 
superfamily, to which the hydrolase belongs. In general small hydrolases are 
predicted to be more soluble than large hydrolases, and eukaryotic hydrolases 
are predicted to be less soluble in E. coli than prokaryotic ones. However, 
combining phylogenetic origin and size leads to more complex conclusions. 
Hydrolases from prokaryotic, fungal and metazoan origin are predicted to be most 
soluble if they are of small, medium and large size, respectively. We observed 
large variations of predicted solubility between hydrolases from different 
homologous families and from different taxa.
CONCLUSION: A comprehensive analysis of all alpha/beta hydrolase sequences 
allows more efficient screenings for new soluble alpha/beta hydrolases by the 
use of libraries which contain more soluble gene products. Screening of 
hydrolases from families whose members are hard to express as soluble proteins 
in E. coli should first be done in coding sequences of organisms from 
phylogenetic groups with the highest average of predicted solubility for 
proteins of this family. The tools developed here can be used to identify 
attractive target genes for expression using protein sequences published in 
databases. This analysis also directs the design of degenerate, family-specific 
primers to amplify new members from homologous families or superfamilies with a 
high probability of soluble alpha/beta hydrolases.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-6-49
PMCID: PMC1079826
PMID: 15804363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Metab Eng. 2014 Mar;22:22-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2013.12.002. Epub 2013 Dec 
10.

Improving D-glucaric acid production from myo-inositol in E. coli by increasing 
MIOX stability and myo-inositol transport.

Shiue E(1), Prather KL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Synthetic Biology Engineering Research 
Center (SynBERC), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, 
USA.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Synthetic Biology Engineering Research 
Center (SynBERC), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, 
USA. Electronic address: kljp@mit.edu.

D-glucaric acid has been explored for a myriad of potential uses, including 
biopolymer production and cancer treatment. A biosynthetic route to produce 
D-glucaric acid from glucose has been constructed in Escherichia coli (Moon et 
al., 2009b), and analysis of the pathway revealed myo-inositol oxygenase (MIOX) 
to be the least active enzyme. To increase pathway productivity, we explored 
protein fusion tags for increased MIOX solubility and directed evolution for 
increased MIOX activity. An N-terminal SUMO fusion to MIOX resulted in a 75% 
increase in D-glucaric acid production from myo-inositol. While our directed 
evolution efforts did not yield an improved MIOX variant, our screen isolated a 
941 bp DNA fragment whose expression led to increased myo-inositol transport and 
a 65% increase in D-glucaric acid production from myo-inositol. Overall, we 
report the production of up to 4.85 g/L of D-glucaric acid from 10.8 g/L 
myo-inositol in recombinant E. coli.

© 2013 Published by International Metabolic Engineering Society on behalf of 
International Metabolic Engineering Society.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2013.12.002
PMID: 24333274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2015 Jun;16(2):67-80. doi: 10.1007/s10969-015-9198-1. 
Epub 2015 Apr 9.

Expression platforms for producing eukaryotic proteins: a comparison of E. coli 
cell-based and wheat germ cell-free synthesis, affinity and solubility tags, and 
cloning strategies.

Aceti DJ(1), Bingman CA, Wrobel RL, Frederick RO, Makino S, Nichols KW, Sahu SC, 
Bergeman LF, Blommel PG, Cornilescu CC, Gromek KA, Seder KD, Hwang S, Primm JG, 
Sabat G, Vojtik FC, Volkman BF, Zolnai Z, Phillips GN Jr, Markley JL, Fox BG.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Eukaryotic Structural Genomics, Department of Biochemistry, 
University of Wisconsin at Madison, 433 Babcock Dr., Madison, WI, 53706, USA.

Vectors designed for protein production in Escherichia coli and by wheat germ 
cell-free translation were tested using 21 well-characterized eukaryotic 
proteins chosen to serve as controls within the context of a structural genomics 
pipeline. The controls were carried through cloning, small-scale expression 
trials, large-scale growth or synthesis, and purification. Successfully purified 
proteins were also subjected to either crystallization trials or (1)H-(15)N HSQC 
NMR analyses. Experiments evaluated: (1) the relative efficacy of 
restriction/ligation and recombinational cloning systems; (2) the value of 
maltose-binding protein (MBP) as a solubility enhancement tag; (3) the 
consequences of in vivo proteolysis of the MBP fusion as an alternative to 
post-purification proteolysis; (4) the effect of the level of LacI repressor on 
the yields of protein obtained from E. coli using autoinduction; (5) the 
consequences of removing the His tag from proteins produced by the cell-free 
system; and (6) the comparative performance of E. coli cells or wheat germ 
cell-free translation. Optimal promoter/repressor and fusion tag configurations 
for each expression system are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-015-9198-1
PMCID: PMC4430420
PMID: 25854603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Microb Cell Fact. 2017 Jan 17;16(1):4. doi: 10.1186/s12934-016-0618-0.

Gene design, fusion technology and TEV cleavage conditions influence the 
purification of oxidized disulphide-rich venom peptides in Escherichia coli.

Sequeira AF(1)(2), Turchetto J(3), Saez NJ(3)(4), Peysson F(3), Ramond L(3), 
Duhoo Y(3), Blémont M(3), Fernandes VO(1), Gama LT(1), Ferreira LM(1)(2), 
Guerreiro CI(2), Gilles N(5), Darbon H(3), Fontes CM(1)(2), Vincentelli R(6).

Author information:
(1)CIISA-Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade de Lisboa, Avenida da 
Universidade Técnica, 1300-477, Lisbon, Portugal.
(2)NZYtech Genes & Enzymes, Campus do Lumiar, Estrada do paço do Lumiar, 
1649-038, Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Unité Mixte de Recherche (UMR) 7257, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique (CNRS)-Aix-Marseille Université, Architecture et Fonction des 
Macromolécules Biologiques (AFMB), Marseille, France.
(4)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, 
4072, Australia.
(5)CEA/DRF/iBiTecS, Service d'Ingénierie Moléculaire des Protéines, 91191, 
Gif-Sur-Yvette, France.
(6)Unité Mixte de Recherche (UMR) 7257, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique (CNRS)-Aix-Marseille Université, Architecture et Fonction des 
Macromolécules Biologiques (AFMB), Marseille, France. 
renaud.vincentelli@afmb.univ-mrs.fr.

BACKGROUND: Animal venoms are large, complex libraries of bioactive, 
disulphide-rich peptides. These peptides, and their novel biological activities, 
are of increasing pharmacological and therapeutic importance. However, 
recombinant expression of venom peptides in Escherichia coli remains difficult 
due to the significant number of cysteine residues requiring effective 
post-translational processing. There is also an urgent need to develop 
high-throughput recombinant protocols applicable to the production of 
reticulated peptides to enable efficient screening of their drug potential. 
Here, a comprehensive study was developed to investigate how synthetic gene 
design, choice of fusion tag, compartment of expression, tag removal conditions 
and protease recognition site affect levels of solubility of oxidized venom 
peptides produced in E. coli.
RESULTS: The data revealed that expression of venom peptides imposes significant 
pressure on cysteine codon selection. DsbC was the best fusion tag for venom 
peptide expression, in particular when the fusion was directed to the bacterial 
periplasm. While the redox activity of DsbC was not essential to maximize 
expression of recombinant fusion proteins, redox activity did lead to higher 
levels of correctly folded target peptides. With the exception of proline, the 
canonical TEV protease recognition site tolerated all other residues at its 
C-terminus, confirming that no non-native residues, which might affect activity, 
need to be incorporated at the N-terminus of recombinant peptides for tag 
removal.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals that E. coli is a convenient heterologous host 
for the expression of soluble and functional venom peptides. Using the optimal 
construct design, a large and diverse range of animal venom peptides were 
produced in the µM scale. These results open up new possibilities for the 
high-throughput production of recombinant disulphide-rich peptides in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-016-0618-0
PMCID: PMC5240416
PMID: 28093085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1177:81-94. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-1034-2_7.

Rescuing aggregation-prone proteins in Escherichia coli with a dual His₆-MBP 
tag.

Needle D(1), Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, 
National Cancer Institute, B, Frederick, MD, 21702-1201, USA.

Insolubility of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli is a major impediment 
to their production for structural and functional studies. One way around this 
problem is to fuse an aggregation-prone protein to a highly soluble partner. E. 
coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) is widely recognized as a premier 
solubilizing agent. In this chapter, we describe how to construct dual 
His6-MBP-tagged fusion proteins by Gateway(®) recombinational cloning and how to 
predict their yield and solubility. We also describe a simple and rapid 
procedure to test the ability of a His6-MBP fusion protein to bind to Ni-NTA 
resin and to be digested by tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease, along with a 
method to assess the solubility of the target protein after it has been 
separated from His6-MBP.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-1034-2_7
PMCID: PMC7720885
PMID: 24943316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. BMC Vet Res. 2014 May 22;10:115. doi: 10.1186/1746-6148-10-115.

High yield production of pigeon circovirus capsid protein in the E. coli by 
evaluating the key parameters needed for protein expression.

Lai GH, Lin YC, Tsai YL, Lien YY, Lin MK, Chen HJ, Chang WT, Tzen JT(1), Lee MS.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Biotechnology, National Chung Hsing University, 
Taichung, Taiwan. TCTZEN@dragon.nchu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Pigeon circovirus (PiCV) is considered to be a viral agent central 
to the development of young pigeon disease syndrome (YPDS). The Cap protein, a 
structural protein encoded by the cap (or C1) gene of PiCV, has been shown to be 
responsible for not only capsid assembly, but also has been used as antigen for 
detecting antibody when the host is infected with PiCV. The antigenic 
characteristics of the Cap protein potentially may allow the development of a 
detection kit that could be applied to control PiCV infection. However, poor 
expression and poor protein solubility have hampered the production of 
recombinant Cap protein in the bacteria. This study was undertaken to develop 
the optimal expression of recombinant full-length Cap protein of PiCV using an 
E. coli expression system.
RESULTS: The PiCV cap gene was cloned and fused with different fusion partners 
including a His-tag, a GST-tag (glutathioine-S-transferase tag) and a 
Trx-His-tag (thioredoxin-His tag). The resulting constructs were then expressed 
after transformation into a number of different E. coli strains; these then had 
their protein expression evaluated. The expression of the recombinant Cap 
protein in E. coli was significantly increased when Cap protein was fused with 
either a GST-tag or a Trx-His tag rather than a His-tag. After various rare 
amino acid codons presented in the Cap protein were optimized to give the 
sequence rCapopt, the expression level of the GST-rCapopt in E. coli BL21(DE3) 
was further increased to a significant degree. The highest protein expression 
level of GST-rCapopt obtained was 394.27 ± 26.1 mg/L per liter using the E. coli 
strain BL21(DE3)-pLysS. Moreover, approximately 74.5% of the expressed 
GST-rCapopt was in soluble form, which is higher than the soluble 
Trx-His-rCapopt expressed using the BL21(DE3)-pLysS strain. After purification 
using a GST affinity column combined with ion-exchange chromatography, the 
purified recombinant GST-rCapopt protein was found to have good antigenic 
activity when tested against PiCV-infected pigeon sera.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings shows that the E. coli-expressed full-length PiCV 
Cap protein has great potential in terms of large-scaled production and this 
should allow in the future the development of a serodiagnostic kit that is able 
to clinically detect PiCV infection in pigeons.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-6148-10-115
PMCID: PMC4046012
PMID: 24886262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;27(10):1117-20.

[Prokaryotic expression and antibody preparation of human GALNT3-sol protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Kong Y(1), Gao HT, Li SF, Wang P, Gu L.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Shandong University, Jinan, China. kongyu626@sohu.com

AIM: In order to detect the expression of GALNT3 in various tumor tissues, the 
prokaryotic expression vector of human GALNT3-sol (a truncation of GALNT3 being 
deleted of the hydrophobic trans-membrane domain) was constructed, and then the 
recombinant GALNT3-sol protein was expressed and purified from E.coli, followed 
by the preparation of polyclonal antibody against GALNT3-sol and 
characterization of its properties.
METHODS: The human cDNA of GALNT3-sol (1 755 bp)was amplified from MKN45 cell 
line and cloned into expression vector pET5b/GALNT3-sol, then transformed into 
E.coli BL21(DE3), in which the GALNT3-sol protein was induced by IPTG and then 
purified by Electrophoresis.Mice were immunized with the purified protein and 
the anti-serum was collected at different time intervals.Properties of the 
anti-serum were further detected by ELISA and Western blot.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression vector of pET15b/GALNT3-sol was constructed 
successfully.Human GALNT3-sol protein was expressed in E.coli after IPTG 
induction.The titer of the obtained anti-serum reached 1:25 600, and its 
specificity was proved by Western blot.
CONCLUSION: Human GALNT3-sol protein can be successfully expressed in E.coli, 
and the specific anti-human GALNT3-sol antibody can be obtained by immunization 
of mice, which makes it possible to further investigate the role of GALNT3 in 
the progression of various tumors.

PMID: 21968315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Iran Biomed J. 2014;18(4):212-218. doi: 10.6091/ibj.1344.2014.

Immunogenicity of a fusion protein comprising coli surface antigen 3 and labile 
B subunit of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.

Alerasol M(1), Mousavi Gargari SL(1), Nazarian S(2), Bagheri S(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Depent of Biology, Imam Hussein University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains are the major causes 
of diarrheal disease in humans and animals. Colonization factors and 
enterotoxins are the major virulence factors in ETEC pathogenesis. For the 
broad-spectrum protection against ETEC, one could focus on colonization factors 
and non-toxic heat labile as a vaccine candidate.
METHODS: A fusion protein is composed of a major fimbrial subunit of coli 
surface antigen 3, and the heat-labile B subunit (LTB) was constructed as a 
chimeric immunogen. For optimum level expression of protein, the gene was 
synthesized with codon bias of E. coli. Also, recombinant protein was expressed 
in E. coli BL21DE3. ELISA and Western tests were carried out for determination 
of antigen and specificity of antibody raised against recombinant protein in 
animals. The anti-toxicity and anti-adherence properties of the immune sera 
against ETEC were also evaluated.
RESULTS: Immunological analyses showed the production of high titer of specific 
antibody in immunized mice. The built-in LTB retains native toxin properties 
which were approved by GM1 binding assay. Pre-treatment of the ETEC cells with 
anti-sera significantly decreased their adhesion to Caco-2 cells.
CONCLUSION: The results indicated the efficacy of the recombinant chimeric 
protein as an effective immunogen inducing strong humoral response. The 
designated chimer would be an interesting prototype for a vaccine and worthy of 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.6091/ibj.1344.2014
PMCID: PMC4225060
PMID: 25326019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Jan;97(2):837-45. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-012-4630-y. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

A simple and effective strategy for solving the problem of inclusion bodies in 
recombinant protein technology: His-tag deletions enhance soluble expression.

Zhu S(1), Gong C, Ren L, Li X, Song D, Zheng G.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resources Engineering, Beijing University of 
Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, People's Republic of China.

The formation of inclusion bodies (IBs) in recombinant protein biotechnology has 
become one of the most frequent undesirable occurrences in both research and 
industrial applications. So far, the pET System is the most powerful system 
developed for the production of recombinant proteins when Escherichia coli is 
used as the microbial cell factory. Also, using fusion tags to facilitate 
detection and purification of the target protein is a commonly used tactic. 
However, there is still a large fraction of proteins that cannot be produced in 
E. coli in a soluble (and hence functional) form. Intensive research efforts 
have tried to address this issue, and numerous parameters have been modulated to 
avoid the formation of inclusion bodies. However, hardly anyone has noticed that 
adding fusion tags to the recombinant protein to facilitate purification is a 
key factor that affects the formation of inclusion bodies. To test this idea, 
the industrial biocatalysts uridine phosphorylase from Aeropyrum pernix K1 and 
(+)-γ-lactamase and (-)-γ-lactamase from Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA 6 were 
expressed in E. coli by using the pET System and then examined. We found that 
using a histidine tag as a fusion partner for protein expression did affect the 
formation of inclusion bodies in these examples, suggesting that removing the 
fusion tag can promote the solubility of heterologous proteins. The production 
of soluble and highly active uridine phosphorylase, (+)-γ-lactamase, and 
(-)-γ-lactamase in our results shows that the traditional process needs to be 
reconsidered. Accordingly, a simple and efficient structure-based strategy for 
the production of valuable soluble recombinant proteins in E. coli is proposed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-012-4630-y
PMID: 23250226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2017 May;82(5):613-624. doi: 10.1134/S0006297917050091.

Two Variants of Recombinant Human Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2 (rhBMP-2) with 
Additional Protein Domains: Synthesis in an Escherichia coli Heterologous 
Expression System.

Karyagina AS(1), Boksha IS, Grunina TM, Demidenko AV, Poponova MS, Sergienko OV, 
Lyashchuk AM, Galushkina ZM, Soboleva LA, Osidak EO, Bartov MS, Gromov AV, Lunin 
VG.

Author information:
(1)Gamaleya Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Ministry of Health of the 
Russian Federation, Moscow, 123098, Russia. alexander.v.gromov@gmail.com.

Two variants of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (rhBMP-2) with 
additional N-terminal protein domains were obtained by expression in E. coli. 
The N-terminal domains were s-tag (15-a.a. oligopeptide from bovine pancreatic 
ribonuclease A) and lz (leucine zipper dimerization domain from yeast 
transcription factor GCN4). The s-tag-BMP-2 and lz-BMP-2 were purified by a 
procedure that excluded a long refolding stage. The resulting dimeric proteins 
displayed higher solubility compared to rhBMP-2 without additional protein 
domains. Biological activity of both proteins was demonstrated in vitro by 
induction of alkaline phosphatase in C2C12 cells, and the activity 
of s-tag-BMP-2 in vivo was shown in various experimental animal models.

DOI: 10.1134/S0006297917050091
PMID: 28601071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2014 Sep;63:46-9. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.05.004. 
Epub 2014 May 27.

Synthesis of Mycoplasma arginine deiminase in E. coli using stress-responsive 
proteins.

Ahn KY(1), Lee B(1), Han KY(2), Song JA(1), Lee DS(3), Lee J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea.
(2)Emerging Technology Research Center, Corporate Technology, Operations SAIT, 
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Republic 
of Korea.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
leejw@korea.ac.kr.

We found Escherichia coli proteins, elongation factor Ts (Tsf), and malate 
dehydrogenase (Mdh) that can exist in the form of native and soluble proteins 
even under stress situation such as heat shock and protein denaturing condition. 
To examine their property as solubility enhancers, aggregation-prone Mycoplasma 
arginine deiminase (mADI), which has been suggested as anti-cancer agent, was 
fused to the C-terminal of each of them and cloned into pET28a to be expressed 
in the E. coli cytoplasm. When mADI was fused to fusion partners (Mdh, Tsf), a 
significant portion of the recombinant mADI was expressed in a soluble fraction 
(>90%) whereas the directly expressed mADI was aggregated to the inclusion body. 
In addition, recombinant mADI released from the fusion tag retained its soluble 
form and presented its specific enzymatic activity of converting l-arginine into 
citrulline (>10 U/mg). These results show that Tsf and Mdh could serve as 
effective solubility enhancers for aggregation-prone proteins (e.g. mADI in this 
case) when used as fusion expression partners in bacterial expression systems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.05.004
PMID: 25039059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Biotechnol. 2007 May 1;129(3):373-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2007.01.015. Epub 
2007 Jan 30.

The acidity of protein fusion partners predominantly determines the efficacy to 
improve the solubility of the target proteins expressed in Escherichia coli.

Su Y(1), Zou Z, Feng S, Zhou P, Cao L.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Zhongshan North Road 
3663, Shanghai 200062, China.

Maximization of the soluble protein expression in Escherichia coli (E. coli) via 
the fusion expression strategy is usually preferred for academic, industrial and 
pharmaceutical purposes. In this study, a set of distinct protein fusion 
partners were comparatively evaluated to promote the soluble expression of two 
target proteins including the bovine enterokinase largely prone to aggregation 
and the green fluorescent protein with moderate native solubility. Within 
protein attributes that are putatively involved in protein solubility, the 
protein acidity was of particular concern. Our results explicitly indicated the 
protein fusion partners with a stronger acidity remarkably exhibited a higher 
capacity to enhance the solubility of the target proteins. Among them, msyB, an 
E. coli acidic protein that suppresses the mutants lacking function of protein 
export, was revealed as an excellent protein fusion partner with the 
distinguished features including high potential to enhance protein solubility, 
efficient expression, relatively small size and the origin of E. coli itself. In 
principle, our results confirmed the modified solubility model of 
Wilkinson-Harrison and especially deepened understanding its essence. Meanwhile, 
the roles of other parameters such as protein hydrophilicity in solubility 
enhancement were discussed, a guideline to design or search an optimum protein 
solubility enhancer was also proposed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2007.01.015
PMID: 17374413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Feb;29(2):174-7.

[Expression and antiserum preparation of recombinant human antithrombin-III].

[Article in Chinese]

Bu S(1), Wang H, Sun T, Liu W, Wang L, He H.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express recombinant antithrombin-III (AT-III) in an E.coli 
expression system, prepare the antiserum of AT-III and determine its titer.
METHODS: Gene segment of AT-III was acquired by cloning technology. Then 
prokaryotic expression plasmid pET32a(+)-AT-III was constructed and transformed 
into E.coli competent cells BL21. The cells were induced by IPTG to express 
AT-III. After purified, the product was used to immunize New Zealand rabbits. 
Then antiserum was detected using indirect ELISA and Western blotting.
RESULTS: Specific bands appeared at about M(r); 77 000, indicating prokaryotic 
expression protein detected by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. From the rabbits 
immunized by the purified fusion protein, we aquired AT-III antiserum, of which 
the highest titer was 1:12 800 as shown by indirect ELISA. Western blotting 
showed the antiserum had the ability of specific binding to AT-III protein 
expressed by 293T and CHO or purified AT-III protein.
CONCLUSION: Antiserum of human AT-III has been prepared successfully.

PMID: 23388336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. BMC Biotechnol. 2012 Jun 6;12:27. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-12-27.

Efficient production of an engineered apoptin from chicken anemia virus in a 
recombinant E. coli for tumor therapeutic applications.

Lee MS(1), Sun FC, Huang CH, Lien YY, Feng SH, Lai GH, Lee MS, Chao J, Chen HJ, 
Tzen JT, Cheng HY.

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chinese Medicine Resources, 
China Medical University, Taichung, 40402Taiwan, Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Apoptin, a nonstructural protein encoded by the VP3 gene of chicken 
anemia virus (CAV), has been shown to not only induce apoptosis when introduced 
into the precursors of chicken thymocytes, but has been found to specifically 
kill human cancer cells, tumor cell and transformed cells without affecting the 
proliferation of normal cells. This tumor-specific apoptotic characteristic of 
the protein potentially may allow the development of a protein drug that has 
applications in tumor therapy. However, several major problems, which include 
poor expression and poor protein solubility, have hampered the production of 
apoptin in bacteria.
RESULTS: Significantly increased expression of recombinant full-length apoptin 
that originated from chicken anemia virus was demonstrated using an E. coli 
expression system. The CAV VP3 gene was fused with a synthetic sequence 
containing a trans-acting activator of transcription (TAT) protein transduction 
domain (PTD). The resulting construct was cloned into various different 
expression vectors and these were then expressed in various E. coli strains. The 
expression of the TAT-Apoptin in E. coli was significantly increased when 
TAT-Apoptin was fused with GST-tag rather than a His-tag. When the various rare 
amino acid codons of apoptin were optimized, the expression level of the 
GST-TAT-Apoptin(opt) in E. coli BL21(DE3) was significantly further increased. 
The highest protein expression level obtained was 8.33 g/L per liter of 
bacterial culture after induction with 0.1 mM IPTG for 4 h at 25 °C. Moreover, 
approximately 90% of the expressed GST-TAT-Apoptin(opt) under these conditions 
was soluble. After purification by GST affinity chromatography, the purified 
recombinant TAT-Apoptin(opt) protein was used to evaluate the recombinant 
protein's apoptotic activity on tumor cells. The results demonstrated that the 
E. coli-expressed GST-TAT-apoptin(opt) showed apoptotic activity and was able to 
induce human premyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cells to enter apoptosis.
CONCLUSIONS: On expression in E. coli, purified recombinant TAT-Apoptin(opt) 
that has been fused to a GST tag and had its codons optimized, was found to have 
great potential. This protein may in the future allow the development of a 
therapeutic protein that is able to specifically kill tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-12-27
PMCID: PMC3443062
PMID: 22672291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Curr Protoc Protein Sci. 2003 Feb;Chapter 6:Unit 6.1. doi: 
10.1002/0471140864.ps0601s30.

Overview of the purification of recombinant proteins produced in Escherichia 
coli.

Wingfield PT(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

The updated version of this unit presents an overview of recombinant protein 
purification with special emphasis on proteins expressed in E. coli. The first 
section deals with information pertinent to protein purification that can be 
derived from translation of the cDNA sequence. This is followed by a discussion 
of common problems associated with bacterial protein expression. A flow chart 
summarizes approaches for establishing solubility and localization of 
bacterially produced proteins. Purification strategies for both soluble and 
insoluble proteins are also reviewed. A section on glycoproteins produced in 
bacteria in the nonglycosylated state is included to emphasize that, although 
they may not be useful for in vivo studies, such proteins are well suited for 
structural studies. Finally, protein handling, scale and aims of purification, 
and specialized equipment needed for recombinant protein purification and 
characterization are discussed. The methodologies and approaches described here 
are essentially suitable for laboratory-scale operations.

DOI: 10.1002/0471140864.ps0601s30
PMID: 18429246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 May;34(5):456-461.

[Preparation of rabbit polyclonal antibodies against human copine-8 protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Z(1), Li Y(1), You J(1), Peng J(1), Lu J(1), Lu C(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science & Technology, Guangxi University, Nanning 530005, 
China.
(2)College of Life Science & Technology, Guangxi University, Nanning 530005, 
China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: chlu@gxu.edu.cn.

Objective To produce human polyclonal antibodies against copine-8 (CPNE8) 
protein. Methods Full-length cDNA of CPNE8 gene in human bronchial epithelial 
cells (HBEs) was amplified by reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR), and then 
cloned into prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-4T-1. The recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into E.coli Rosetta (DE3). The recombinant protein was induced by 
IPTG, purified by glutathione-sepharose affinity chromatography, and then 
identified by MALDI-TOF MS. New Zealand white rabbits were immunized with the 
purified protein to generate polyclonal antibodies. Titer and specificity of the 
purified polyclonal antibodies were analyzed by ELISA, Western blotting and 
immunohistochemistry (IHC). Results Prokaryotic expression vector of 
pGEX-4T-1-CPNE8 was constructed. Recombinant CPNE8 protein was efficiently 
expressed in E.coli Rosetta (DE3). ELISA showed that the titer was 1:64 000. 
Prokaryotically expressed CPNE8 protein was detected by Western blotting using 
the human CPNE8 polyclonal antibody. The expression and distribution of CPNE8 
protein in normal human lung tissue and lung cancer tissue was detected by IHC 
using the human CPNE8 polyclonal antibody. Conclusion We have successfully 
produced human polyclonal antibodies against CPNE8 protein.

PMID: 30043736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 May;109:79-84. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.02.010. Epub 
2015 Feb 17.

Use of adenylate kinase as a solubility tag for high level expression of T4 DNA 
ligase in Escherichia coli.

Liu X(1), Huang A(2), Luo D(1), Liu H(1), Han H(1), Xu Y(1), Liang P(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Growth, Metabolism and Aging, School of Life Sciences, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu 610064, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Gene and Cell Therapy, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(3)Center for Growth, Metabolism and Aging, School of Life Sciences, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu 610064, China; State Key Laboratory for Gene and Cell 
Therapy, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China; Clover Biopharmaceuticals, Chengdu, 
China; GenHunter Corporation, 624 Grassmere Park, Nashville, TN 37211, USA. 
Electronic address: liangpeng@scu.edu.cn.

The discovery of T4 DNA ligase in 1960s was pivotal in the spread of molecular 
biotechnology. The enzyme has become ubiquitous for recombinant DNA routinely 
practiced in biomedical research around the globe. Great efforts have been made 
to express and purify T4 DNA ligase to meet the world demand, yet 
over-expression of soluble T4 DNA ligase in E. coli has been difficult. Here we 
explore the use of adenylate kinase to enhance T4 DNA ligase expression and its 
downstream purification. E.coli adenylate kinase, which can be expressed in 
active form at high level, was fused to the N-terminus of T4 DNA ligase. The 
resulting His-tagged AK-T4 DNA ligase fusion protein was greatly over-expressed 
in E. coli, and readily purified to near homogeneity via two purification steps 
consisting of Blue Sepharose and Ni-NTA chromatography. The purified AK-T4 DNA 
ligase not only is fully active for DNA ligation, but also can use ADP in 
addition to ATP as energy source since adenylate kinase converts ADP to ATP and 
AMP. Thus adenylate kinase may be used as a solubility tag to facilitate 
recombinant protein expression as well as their downstream purification.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.02.010
PMID: 25700573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Jun;30(6):618-22.

[Expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of HPV-11E7 protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Ding Y(1), Jiang S(2), Chen X(1), Chen L(3), Zhang X(3), Cheng H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, China.
(2)Center of Biomedicine Research, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, China.
(3)Center of Clinical Medicine Research, Second Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310009, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express human papillomavirus type 11, E7 protein (HPV11E7) via a 
prokaryotic expression vector and produce anti-HPV11E7 polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: A prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-4T2-HPV11E7 was constructed and 
soluble GST-HPV11E7 fusion protein was expressed in E.coli by IPTG induction and 
purified. The purified HPV11E7 protein was used to immunize New Zealand rabbits 
to prepare the anti-HPV11E7 polyclonal antibody followed by protein G agarose 
purification to obtain the IgG type polyclonal antibody. Western blotting and 
immunofluorescence analysis were used to test the specificity and titer of the 
antibody.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE analysis demonstrated that large amounts of soluble 
GST-HPV11E7 fusion protein was expressed in E.coli after 6 hours of IPTG 
induction. Western blotting and immunofluorescence confirmed that the purified 
anti-HPV11E7 polyclonal IgG antibody obtained from immunized rabbits had a high 
titer and specificity.
CONCLUSION: The prokaryotic expression system could express a great deal of 
soluble HPV11E7 protein, and anti-HPV11E7 polyclonal IgG antibody from 
HPV11E7-immunized rabbits was proved to have a high titer and specificity.

PMID: 24909284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Metab Eng. 2008 Jan;10(1):24-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2007.09.001. Epub 2007 Sep 
18.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for biosynthesis of hyaluronic acid.

Yu H(1), Stephanopoulos G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Engineering of hyaluronic acid (HA) biosynthetic pathway in recombinant 
Escherichia coli as production host is reported in this work. A hyaluronic acid 
synthase (HAS) gene, sphasA, from Sreptococcus pyogenes with the start codon gtg 
to atg mutant, was expressed in recombinant E. coli with or without the genes 
ugd, galF and glmU, which are analogs of hasB, hasC and hasD from Streptococcus, 
respectively, encoding UDP-glucose 6-dehygrogenase, Glucose-1-P 
uridyltransferase, and N-acetyl glucosamine uridyltransferase enzymes in the HA 
biosynthetic pathway. The single, double and triple organized artificial operons 
of sphasA, ugd, galF and glmU were designed and constructed using the inducible 
plasmid backbone of pMBAD. Only the triple expression recombinant, 
Top10/pMBAD-spABC, generated a relatively high titer of HA (approximately 48 
mg/l at 48 h), indicating that both of the enzymes encoded by ugd and galF are 
essential for HA biosynthesis. A new gene of ssehasA with identical protein 
sequence of seHAS from Streptococcus equisimilis, was artificially synthesized 
after substituting all of the rare codons in the natural sehasA. The HA titer at 
24 h flask culture increased to approximately 190 mg/l in sseAB and 160 mg/l in 
sseABC, respectively. Sorbitol could be used as another carbon source for HA 
accumulation, and the metabolic pathway for HA synthesis in a recombinant E. 
coli was presented. The concentration of Mg(2+) cofactor of HA synthase was 
optimized and a cell growth inhibition phenomenon was observed during HA 
accumulation. Molecular weight (MW) measurements revealed that the mean MW of HA 
produced from the recombinant E. coli under different conditions ranges from 
approximately 3.5x10(5) to 1.9x10(6)Da, indicating that the recombinant E. coli 
can be used as a potential host candidate for industrial production of HA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2007.09.001
PMID: 17959405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Biotechnol. 2022 Mar 10;347:56-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2022.02.005. Epub 
2022 Feb 22.

A statistical approach to boost soluble expression of E. coli-derived virus-like 
particles in shake-flask cultivation.

Huynh NH(1), Davey K(1), Jin B(1), Bi J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering & Advanced Materials, The University of 
Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia.
(2)School of Chemical Engineering & Advanced Materials, The University of 
Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. Electronic address: jingxiu.bi@adelaide.edu.au.

Hepatitis B core virus-like particles (HBc-VLP) have been widely used as carrier 
platforms to present an epitope of interest. Escherichia coli expression system 
is cost effective and produces high yields of recombinant protein. However major 
drawbacks include difficulties in obtaining soluble expression and tendency to 
form inclusion bodies. To boost solubility of proteins during expression of E. 
coli-derived HBc-VLPs carrying EBNA1 epitope, a statistical approach involving 
fractional factorial design and response surface methodology was used. For the 
first time, this approach was applied to quantitatively determine the impact of 
key parameters in shake-flask cultivation. Expression conditions including 
post-induction temperature and shaker-speed, and cell density at induction were 
optimized. Based on native agarose gel electrophoresis, optimized soluble 
protein cellular yield was 210.5 mg g-1 dry cell mass and volumetric yield was 
272 mg L-1 of culture media. Findings highlight: 1) the significant interaction 
between post-induction temperature and shaker-speed on production, and; 2) 
sufficient oxygen level is required during induction. It is concluded that this 
statistical approach can be practically applied to optimize expression of 
HBc-VLP in shake-flask cultivation, and to determine key parameters for 
large-scale productions.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2022.02.005
PMID: 35202741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Mol Biol. 2009 May 1;388(2):381-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.03.002. Epub 2009 
Mar 10.

A relationship between mRNA expression levels and protein solubility in E. coli.

Tartaglia GG(1), Pechmann S, Dobson CM, Vendruscolo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge 
CB2 1EW, UK. ggt23@cam.ac.uk

Each step in the process of gene expression, from the transcription of DNA into 
mRNA to the folding and posttranslational modification of proteins, is regulated 
by complex cellular mechanisms. At the same time, stringent conditions on the 
physicochemical properties of proteins, and hence on the nature of their amino 
acids, are imposed by the need to avoid aggregation at the concentrations 
required for optimal cellular function. A relationship is therefore expected to 
exist between mRNA expression levels and protein solubility in the cell. By 
investigating such a relationship, we formulate a method that enables the 
prediction of the maximal levels of mRNA expression in Escherichia coli with an 
accuracy of 83% and of the solubility of recombinant human proteins expressed in 
E. coli with an accuracy of 86%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.03.002
PMID: 19281824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e26875. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026875. Epub 2011 Nov 2.

Expression screening of fusion partners from an E. coli genome for soluble 
expression of recombinant proteins in a cell-free protein synthesis system.

Ahn JH(1), Keum JW, Kim DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Fine Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, Chungnam 
National University, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

While access to soluble recombinant proteins is essential for a number of 
proteome studies, preparation of purified functional proteins is often limited 
by the protein solubility. In this study, potent solubility-enhancing fusion 
partners were screened from the repertoire of endogenous E. coli proteins. Based 
on the presumed correlation between the intracellular abundance and folding 
efficiency of proteins, PCR-amplified ORFs of a series of highly abundant E. 
coli proteins were fused with aggregation-prone heterologous proteins and then 
directly expressed for quantitative estimation of the expression efficiency of 
soluble translation products. Through two-step screening procedures involving 
the expression of 552 fusion constructs targeted against a series of cytokine 
proteins, we were able to discover a number of endogenous E. coli proteins that 
dramatically enhanced the soluble expression of the target proteins. This 
strategy of cell-free expression screening can be extended to quantitative, 
global analysis of genomic resources for various purposes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026875
PMCID: PMC3206877
PMID: 22073212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


326. Biotechnol Prog. 2010 May-Jun;26(3):743-9. doi: 10.1002/btpr.393.

Recombinant murine growth hormone from E. coli inclusion bodies: expression, 
high-pressure solubilization and refolding, and characterization of activity and 
structure.

Fradkin AH(1), Boand CS, Eisenberg SP, Rosendahl MS, Randolph TW.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Chemical Engineering, University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO 
80309, USA.

We expressed recombinant murine growth hormone (rmGH) in E. coli as a 
cost-effective way to produce large quantities (gram scale) of the protein for 
use in murine studies of immunogenicity to therapeutic proteins. High 
hydrostatic pressure was used to achieve high solubility and high refolding 
yields of rmGH protein produced in E. coli inclusion bodies. A two-step column 
purification protocol was used to produce 99% pure monomeric rmGH. Secondary and 
tertiary structures of purified rmGH were investigated using circular dichroism 
and 2D-UV spectroscopy. The purified rmGH produced was found to be biologically 
active in hypophysectomized rats.

Copyright 2010 American Institute of Chemical Engineers

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.393
PMID: 20196161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Biotechniques. 2004 Sep;37(3):418, 420, 422-3. doi: 10.2144/04373ST07.

Method for enhancing solubility of the expressed recombinant proteins in 
Escherichia coli.

Ghosh S(1), Rasheedi S, Rahim SS, Banerjee S, Choudhary RK, Chakhaiyar P, 
Ehtesham NZ, Mukhopadhyay S, Hasnain SE.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Nutrition (ICMR), Hyderabad, India.

The production of correctly folded protein in Escherichia coli is often 
challenging because of aggregation of the overexpressed protein into inclusion 
bodies. Although a number of general and protein-specific techniques are 
available, their effectiveness varies widely. We report a novel method for 
enhancing the solubility of overexpressed proteins. Presence of a dipeptide, 
glycylglycine, in the range of 100 mM to 1 M in the medium was found to 
significantly enhance the solubility (up to 170-fold) of the expressed proteins. 
The method has been validated using mycobacterial proteins, resulting in 
improved solubilization, which were otherwise difficult to express as soluble 
proteins in E. coli. This method can also be used to enhance the solubility of 
other heterologous recombinant proteins expressed in a bacterial system.

DOI: 10.2144/04373ST07
PMID: 15470897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Apr;82(2):297-301. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.01.020. Epub 
2012 Feb 8.

Cultivation at 6-10°C is an effective strategy to overcome the insolubility of 
recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli.

Song JM(1), An YJ, Kang MH, Lee YH, Cha SS.

Author information:
(1)Marine Biology and Living Resources Research Department, Korea Ocean Research 
and Development Institute, Ansan 426-744, Republic of Korea.

Protein expression in Escherichia coli at 15-25°C is widely used to increase the 
solubility of recombinant proteins. However, many recombinant proteins are 
insolubly expressed even at those low temperatures. Here, we show that 
recombinant proteins can be expressed as soluble forms by simply lowering 
temperature to 6-10°C without cold adapted chaperon systems. By using E. coli 
Rosetta-gami2(DE3), we obtained 1.8 and 0.9mg of Cryptopygus antarticus 
mannanase (CaMan) and cellulase (CaCel) from 1l culture grown at 6 and 10°C, 
respectively. Cultivation at 10°C also led to successful expression of EM3L7 (a 
lipase isolated from a metagenomic library) in a soluble form in E. coli 
BL21(DE3). Consequently, E. coli cultivation at 6-10°C is an effective strategy 
for overcoming a major hurdle of the inclusion body formation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.01.020
PMID: 22333528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 May;97:72-80. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.02.006. Epub 2014 
Feb 25.

Enhanced expression and purification of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase A 
through use of the pCold1-GST vector and a C-terminal hexahistidine tag in 
Escherichia coli.

Lee D(1), Han S(1), Woo S(1), Lee HW(1), Sun W(1), Kim H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, Korea University, Brain Korea 21, 
Seoul 136-705, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, Korea University, Brain Korea 21, 
Seoul 136-705, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: kimhyun@korea.ac.kr.

Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase A (IP3K-A, alternative name: ITPKA) is a 
neuron-specific enzyme that converts 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) into inositol 
1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4) through its kinase domain. In addition, 
transient overexpression of IP3K-A induces morphological changes in dendritic 
spines of excitatory synapses in a kinase-independent manner, apparently by 
modulating the organization of the neuronal cytoskeleton. Although the 
procurement of a purified recombinant IP3K-A protein would be indispensable for 
the biochemical elucidation of its physiological roles, production of 
recombinant IP3K-A has proven technically challenging in conventional 
Escherichia coli expression systems. These difficulties stem from low enzyme 
solubility, as well as poor protein quality caused by the tendency of IP3K-A to 
split into partial fragments. In present study, we newly introduced cold-shock 
expression vector (pCold1) together with a C-terminal hexahistidine tag (C-HIS) 
to enhance the expression levels of recombinant IP3K-A in E. coli. Importantly, 
when compared with other commonly-employed bacterial expression systems, the 
pCold1 system improved the yield and the purity of full-length IP3K-A due to the 
exclusion of truncated enzyme forms, and also enhanced the solubility of the 
enzyme. Furthermore, the functional integrity of purified IP3K-A was confirmed 
in both kinase activity assay and microtubule binding assay. Recombinant IP3K-A 
acquired via this modified protocol will be expected to facilitate the 
exploration of the enzyme's biochemical profile, both structurally and 
functionally.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.02.006
PMID: 24576661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Environ Sci Technol. 2009 Oct 1;43(19):7410-5. doi: 10.1021/es901262z.

Escherichia coli inactivation by water-soluble, ozonated C60 derivative: 
kinetics and mechanisms.

Cho M(1), Fortner JD, Hughes JB, Kim JH.

Author information:
(1)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, 200 Bobby Dodd Way, Atlanta, Georgia 30332, USA.

Antibacterial and bactericidal effects of a C60 derivative prepared via excess 
ozonation of C60 aggregates in water were investigated using Escherichia coli as 
a representative microorganism. Ozonated C60 up to 10 mg/L did not cause 
significant growth inhibition nor inactivation of E. coli in the absence of 
either oxygen or light. However, it readily inactivated E. coli in the presence 
of both oxygen and light at much faster rate than parent C60 aggregates, 
suggesting involvement of photochemical generation of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS). Among ROS, hydroxyl radical was found as a primary agent for the cell 
inactivation. Little surface protein release and concurrent intercellular enzyme 
degradation during the course of E. coli inactivation, along with visual 
evidence obtained from transmission electron microscopic analysis, collectively 
indicated that the mechanism of E. coli inactivation by ozonated C60 involves 
efficient penetration of ozonated C60 into E. coli and subsequent photochemical 
production of hydroxyl radical within the cell cytoplasm. These findings suggest 
that oxidative transformation of C60 can lead to increased toxicity in addition 
to increased water solubility and reduced size, warranting further studies on 
other potential chemical derivatization possible in natural and engineered 
environments for an accurate assessment of environmental impact of this class of 
materials.

DOI: 10.1021/es901262z
PMID: 19848154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Mar;52(1):194-201. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.08.009. Epub 
2006 Aug 24.

Optimisation of production of a domoic acid-binding scFv antibody fragment in 
Escherichia coli using molecular chaperones and functional immobilisation on a 
mesoporous silicate support.

Hu X(1), O'Hara L, White S, Magner E, Kane M, Wall JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Environmental Sciences, University of Limerick, 
Plassey Technology Park, Limerick, Ireland.

Domoic acid is a potent neurotoxin that can lead to amnesic shellfish poisoning 
in humans through ingestion of contaminated shellfish. We have produced and 
purified an anti-domoic acid single-chain Fragment variable (scFv) antibody 
fragment from the Escherichia coli periplasm. Yields of functional protein were 
increased by up to 100-fold upon co-production of E. coli DnaKJE molecular 
chaperones but co-overproduction of GroESL led to a reduction in solubility of 
the scFv. Co-production of the peptidyl-prolyl isomerase trigger factor resulted 
in accumulation of unprocessed scFv in the E. coli cytoplasm. This was due to an 
apparent bottleneck in translocation of the cytoplasmic membrane by the 
recombinant polypeptide. Co-expression of the E. coli disulfide bond isomerase 
dsbC increased scFv yields by delaying lysis of the host bacterial cells though 
this effect was not synergistic with molecular chaperone co-production. 
Meanwhile, use of a cold-shock promoter for protein production led to 
accumulation of greater amounts of scFv polypeptide which was predominantly in 
insoluble form and could not be rescued by chaperones. Purification of the scFv 
was achieved using an optimised metal affinity chromatography procedure and the 
purified protein bound domoic acid when immobilised on a mesoporous silicate 
support. The work outlines the potential benefit of applying a molecular 
chaperone/folding catalyst screening approach to improve antibody fragment 
production for applications such as sensor development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.08.009
PMID: 17005419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2009 Sep;10(3):233-47. doi: 10.1007/s10969-009-9068-9. 
Epub 2009 Aug 22.

Heterologous expression of L. major proteins in S. cerevisiae: a test of 
solubility, purity, and gene recoding.

Quartley E(1), Alexandrov A, Mikucki M, Buckner FS, Hol WG, DeTitta GT, Phizicky 
EM, Grayhack EJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pediatric Biomedical Research, University of Rochester Medical 
School, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

High level expression of many eukaryotic proteins for structural analysis is 
likely to require a eukaryotic host since many proteins are either insoluble or 
lack essential post-translational modifications when expressed in E. coli. The 
well-studied eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae possesses several attributes of 
a good expression host: it is simple and inexpensive to culture, has proven 
genetic tractability, and has excellent recombinant DNA tools. We demonstrate 
here that this yeast exhibits three additional characteristics that are 
desirable in a eukaryotic expression host. First, expression in yeast 
significantly improves the solubility of proteins that are expressed but 
insoluble in E. coli. The expression and solubility of 83 Leishmania major ORFs 
were compared in S. cerevisiae and in E. coli, with the result that 42 of the 64 
ORFs with good expression and poor solubility in E. coli are highly soluble in 
S. cerevisiae. Second, the yield and purity of heterologous proteins expressed 
in yeast is sufficient for structural analysis, as demonstrated with both small 
scale purifications of 21 highly expressed proteins and large scale 
purifications of 2 proteins, which yield highly homogeneous preparations. Third, 
protein expression can be improved by altering codon usage, based on the 
observation that a codon-optimized construct of one ORF yields three-fold more 
protein. Thus, these results provide direct verification that high level 
expression and purification of heterologous proteins in S. cerevisiae is 
feasible and likely to improve expression of proteins whose solubility in E. 
coli is poor.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-009-9068-9
PMCID: PMC6703162
PMID: 19701618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Indian J Virol. 2013 Sep;24(2):227-34. doi: 10.1007/s13337-013-0159-7. Epub 2013 
Sep 1.

Highly efficient immunodiagnosis of Large cardamom chirke virus using the 
polyclonal antiserum against Escherichia coli expressed recombinant coat 
protein.

Vijayanandraj S(1), Yogita M(1), Das A(2), Ghosh A(2), Mandal B(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plant Pathology, Advanced Centre for Plant Virology, Indian 
Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi, 110012 India.
(2)Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Regional Station, Kalimpong, 
734301 West Bengal India.

Large cardamom chirke virus (LCCV), genus Macluravirus, family Potyviridae is an 
important constrain in large cardamom production in India. Purification of LCCV 
from large cardamom tissues is difficult and therefore immunodiagnostic reagents 
are not available. In the present study, we have successfully expressed coat 
protein (CP) gene of LCCV in Escherichia coli. The purification of expressed 
protein by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography was inefficient due to precipitation 
of protein during renaturation. We have optimized a simple, inexpensive and 
efficient method for purification of the expressed CP through gel extraction 
with 5 % SDS followed by renaturation in Milli-Q water, which resulted in high 
yield (4.7 mg/ml) and good quality of the protein. A higher titer (1:256,000) 
polyclonal antibody (PAb) to the recombinant CP was produced, which strongly 
recognized LCCV in crude leaf extract and showed minimal background reaction 
with the healthy leaf extract in enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and 
dot immunobinding assay (DIBA). The sensitivities of the ELISA and DIBA were 5 
and 0.1 ng of expressed protein, respectively. Both the ELISA and DIBA were 
validated with 100 % accuracy in detecting LCCV in field samples. The PAb 
differentiated Cardamom mosaic virus, another close relative of LCCV. Our study 
is first to report highly efficient immunodiagnosis with PAb to E. coli 
expressed recombinant CP of a virus under the genus Macluravirus. The antigen 
expression construct and PAb developed in the present study will be useful in 
production of virus free planting materials of large cardamom.

DOI: 10.1007/s13337-013-0159-7
PMCID: PMC3784918
PMID: 24426280


334. BMC Biotechnol. 2019 May 14;19(1):27. doi: 10.1186/s12896-019-0522-x.

Recovery of recombinant Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens fused with cell 
wall-anchoring motif (LysM) from inclusion bodies using non-denaturing reagent 
(N-laurylsarcosine).

Mustafa AD(1), Kalyanasundram J(1), Sabidi S(1), Song AA(2)(3), Abdullah M(4), 
Abdul Rahim R(1)(3), Yusoff K(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biotechnology and 
Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)Institute of Bioscience, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti 
Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia. 
kyusoff@upm.edu.my.
(6)Institute of Bioscience, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400, Serdang, Selangor, 
Malaysia. kyusoff@upm.edu.my.
(7)Malaysia Genome Institute, 43000, Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia. 
kyusoff@upm.edu.my.

BACKGROUND: The current limitations of conventional BCG vaccines highlights the 
importance in developing novel and effective vaccines against tuberculosis (TB). 
The utilization of probiotics such as Lactobacillus plantarum for the delivery 
of TB antigens through in-trans surface display provides an effective and safe 
vaccine approach against TB. Such non-recombinant probiotic surface display 
strategy involves the fusion of candidate proteins with cell wall binding domain 
such as LysM, which enables the fusion protein to anchor the L. plantarum cell 
wall externally, without the need for vector genetic modification. This approach 
requires sufficient production of these recombinant fusion proteins in cell 
factory such as Escherichia coli which has been shown to be effective in 
heterologous protein production for decades. However, overexpression in E. coli 
expression system resulted in limited amount of soluble heterologous TB-LysM 
fusion protein, since most of it are accumulated as insoluble aggregates in 
inclusion bodies (IBs). Conventional methods of denaturation and renaturation 
for solubilizing IBs are costly, time-consuming and tedious. Thus, in this 
study, an alternative method for TB antigen-LysM protein solubilization from IBs 
based on the use of non-denaturating reagent N-lauroylsarcosine (NLS) was 
investigated.
RESULTS: Expression of TB antigen-LysM fusion genes was conducted in Escherichia 
coli, but this resulted in IBs deposition in contrast to the expression of TB 
antigens only. This suggested that LysM fusion significantly altered solubility 
of the TB antigens produced in E. coli. The non-denaturing NLS technique was 
used and optimized to successfully solubilize and purify ~ 55% of the 
recombinant cell wall-anchoring TB antigen from the IBs. Functionality of the 
recovered protein was analyzed via immunofluorescence microscopy and whole cell 
ELISA which showed successful and stable cell wall binding to L. plantarum (up 
to 5 days).
CONCLUSION: The presented NLS purification strategy enables an efficient and 
rapid method for obtaining higher yields of soluble cell wall-anchoring 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens-LysM fusion proteins from IBs in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-019-0522-x
PMCID: PMC6518676
PMID: 31088425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


335. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 May;29(1):123-31. doi: 10.1016/s1046-5928(03)00014-7.

Expression, purification, and initial characterization of a recombinant form of 
plant PEP-carboxylase kinase from CAM-induced Mesembryanthemum crystallinum with 
enhanced solubility in Escherichia coli.

Ermolova NV(1), Ann Cushman M, Taybi T, Condon SA, Cushman JC, Chollet R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, George W. Beadle 
Center, 68588-0664, Lincoln, NE, USA

Plant phosphoenolpyruvate-carboxylase kinase (PEPC-kinase [PpcK]) is the 
smallest Ser/Thr kinase identified to date, having a molecular mass of 
approximately 32,000. This novel, monomeric kinase is dedicated to the 
phosphorylation of plant PEPC, thereby regulating this target enzyme's activity 
and allosteric properties. Although several recombinant, non-fusion PpcK 
proteins have been produced recently in Escherichia coli, these are plagued by 
their high degree of insolubility. Here, we report the use of the native, E. 
coli NusA protein and a related E. coli expression vector (pET-43a(+) [Novagen]) 
for enhancing the solubility of this recalcitrant Ser/Thr kinase at least 
10-fold by its production as a dual 6xHis-tagged NusA/McPpcK1 fusion protein, 
which accounts for approximately 10% of the soluble protein fraction from 
induced cells. Capture of this fusion protein from the centrifuged cell extract 
by immobilized metal (Ni(2+)) affinity-chromatography, its "on-bead" cleavage by 
thrombin, and subsequent elution yielded milligram quantities of a "free," 
approximately 36-kDa form of PpcK for further purification by fast-protein 
liquid chromatography on blue dextran-agarose or preparative SDS-PAGE. 
Steady-state kinetic analysis of the former, active preparation revealed that 
this dedicated kinase discriminates against neither various isoforms of plant 
PEPC nor certain mutant forms of recombinant C(4) PEPC. Alternatively, the 
latter, electrophoretically homogeneous sample of the approximately 36-kDa 
polypeptide was used as antigen for polyclonal-antibody production in rabbits. 
The antibodies against the recombinant McPpcK1 from Mesembryanthemum 
crystallinum cross-reacted on Western blots with an enriched preparation of the 
maize-leaf kinase, but not with the parent crude extract, thus directly 
documenting this protein's extremely low abundance in vivo. However, these 
antibodies were effective in immunoprecipitating 32P-based PpcK activity from 
crude, desalted extracts of maize leaves and soybean root-nodules.

DOI: 10.1016/s1046-5928(03)00014-7
PMID: 12729733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Proteomics. 2005 Sep;5(14):3571-80. doi: 10.1002/pmic.200401195.

Large-scale protein expression for proteome research.

Korf U(1), Kohl T, van der Zandt H, Zahn R, Schleeger S, Ueberle B, 
Wandschneider S, Bechtel S, Schnölzer M, Ottleben H, Wiemann S, Poustka A.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Genome Analysis, DKFZ, Heidelberg, Germany. u.korf@dkfz.de

Access to pure and soluble recombinant proteins is essential for numerous 
applications in proteome research, such as the production of antibodies, 
structural characterization of proteins, and protein microarrays. Through the 
German cDNA Consortium we have access to more than 1500 ORFs encoding 
uncharacterized proteins. Preparing a large number of recombinant proteins calls 
for the careful refinement and re-evaluation of protein purification tools. The 
expression and purification strategy should result in mg quantities of protein 
that can be employed in microarray-based assays. In addition, the experimental 
set-up should be robust enough to allow both automated protein expression 
screening and the production of the proteins on a mg scale. These requirements 
are best fulfilled by a bacterial expression system such as Escherichia coli. To 
develop an efficient expression strategy, 75 different ORFs were transferred 
into suitable expression vectors using the Gateway cloning system. Four 
different fusion tags (E. coli transcription-termination anti-termination factor 
(NusA), hexahistidine tag (6xHis), maltose binding protein (MBP) and GST) were 
analyzed for their effect on yield of induced fusion protein and its solubility, 
as determined at two different induction temperatures. Affinity-purified fusion 
proteins were confirmed by MALDI-TOF MS.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200401195
PMID: 16127724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Res Pharm Sci. 2015 Nov-Dec;10(6):553-61.

The effect of cell disruption techniques and chaotropic agents on the downstream 
purification process of mecasermin produced as inclusion body in E. coli.

Haddad L(1), Babaeipour V(2), Mofid MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Isfahan Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center 
and Bioinformatics Research Center, School of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
(2)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Malek Ashtar University of 
Technology, Tehran, I.R. Iran.

The isolation of the target protein from inclusion bodies (IBs) is a preliminary 
step to increase protein titer and to maintain its biological activity. In the 
present study, the effects of various cell lysis methods and the expression 
temperature was investigated on the improvement of the subsequent purification 
steps of mecasermin produced in IB. We also investigated the solubilization 
profile of the top-notch IB in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride (Gdn-HCl) and 8 M 
urea at different pH ranges. Mecasermin was expressed at various temperatures 
(25, 28, 30, and 37 °C) and the Escherichia coli cells were lysed by different 
cell lysis methods. The purity and quality of harvested IBs was evaluated with 
sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Finally, 
mecasermin was refolded and purified using gel filtration chromatography. The 
profile of SDS-PAGE analysis showed higher quality and purity after application 
of sonication coupled with lysozyme pretreatment for expressed mecasermin at 37 
°C. Besides, from dithiothreitol application in washing step, we achieved a 
manifold enriched secondary IB for further purification of mecasermin. 
Mecasermin exhibited optimized solubility in 6 M Gdn-HCl at pH of 5.4. The 
findings of this study indicate an important role for cell disruption techniques 
to efficient purification of mecasermin. The study presents the most efficient 
techniques for improvement of downstream purification of mecasermin.

PMCID: PMC4698866
PMID: 26779275


338. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2406:169-187. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_10.

Two-Tiered Selection and Screening Strategy to Increase Functional Enzyme 
Production in E. coli.

Boock JT(1)(2), Taw M(3), King BC(4), Conrado RJ(5), Gibson DM(4)(6), DeLisa 
MP(5).

Author information:
(1)Robert F. Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, NY, USA. boockj@miamioh.edu.
(2)Department of Chemical, Paper and Biomedical Engineering, Miami University 
(OH), Oxford, OH, USA. boockj@miamioh.edu.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, NY, USA.
(5)Robert F. Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(6)USDA Agricultural Research Service, Robert W. Holley Center for Agriculture 
and Health, Ithaca, NY, USA.

Development of recombinant enzymes as industrial biocatalysts or metabolic 
pathway elements requires soluble expression of active protein. Here we present 
a two-step strategy, combining a directed evolution selection with an enzyme 
activity screen, to increase the soluble production of enzymes in the cytoplasm 
of E. coli. The directed evolution component relies on the innate quality 
control of the twin-arginine translocation pathway coupled with antibiotic 
selection to isolate point mutations that promote intracellular solubility. A 
secondary screen is applied to ensure the solubility enhancement has not 
compromised enzyme activity. This strategy has been successfully applied to 
increase the soluble production of a fungal endocellulase by 30-fold in E. coli 
without change in enzyme specific activity through two rounds of directed 
evolution.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_10
PMID: 35089557


339. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 May;77(1):92-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.12.010. Epub 
2010 Dec 23.

Comparative expression of wild-type and highly soluble mutant His103Leu of 
hydroxynitrile lyase from Manihot esculenta in prokaryotic and eukaryotic 
expression systems.

Dadashipour M(1), Fukuta Y, Asano Y.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama 
Prefectural University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama 939-0398, Japan.

Low protein solubility and inclusion body formation represent big challenges in 
production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli. We have recently 
reported functional expression of hydroxynitrile lyase from Manihot esculenta, 
MeHNL, in E. coli with high in vivo solubility and activity using directed 
evolution. As a part of attempts to clarify the mechanism of this phenomenon, we 
have described the possibility of expression of the highly active and soluble 
mutant MeHNL-His103Leu as well as wild-type enzyme in several expression 
systems. Methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris, protozoan host Leishmania 
tarentolae and two cell-free translations, including an E. coli lysate (WakoPURE 
system) and wheat germ translation system were used to compare expression 
profiles of the genes. Two distinguishable protein expression patterns were 
observed in prokaryotic and eukaryotic-based systems. The wild-type and mutant 
enzyme showed high activity for both genes (up to 10 U/ml) in eukaryotic hosts 
P. pastoris and L. tarentolae, while those of E. coli exhibited about 1 and 15 
U/ml, respectively. The different activity level in prokaryotic systems but the 
same level among the eukaryotic hosts indicate the phenomenon is specific to the 
E. coli system. Both the wild-type and mutant enzymes were functionally 
expressed in eukaryotic systems, probably using the folding assistants such as 
chaperones. Properties of expression systems used in this study were precisely 
compared, too.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.12.010
PMID: 21185385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Protein Expr Purif. 2022 Mar;191:106031. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.106031. Epub 
2021 Dec 15.

Tick-borne encephalitis nonstructural protein NS1 expressed in E. coli retains 
immunological properties of the native protein.

Andrey M(1), Yana K(2), Olga G(3), Bogdana K(2), Sergey T(2), Lyudmila E(2), 
Nina T(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemical Biology and Fundamental Medicine, Siberian Branch of 
Russian Academy of Science, Novosibirsk, Russia. Electronic address: 
guterus@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Chemical Biology and Fundamental Medicine, Siberian Branch of 
Russian Academy of Science, Novosibirsk, Russia.
(3)Institute of Chemical Biology and Fundamental Medicine, Siberian Branch of 
Russian Academy of Science, Novosibirsk, Russia; Novosibirsk State University, 
Novosibirsk, Russia.

There is evidence that flaviviral NS1 glycoprotein plays an important role in 
the pathology of tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) and NS1-specific antibodies are 
detected in the blood of patients with TBE. This makes NS1 a good target for the 
development of therapeutic inhibitors and NS1 could be an important biomarker 
for the early diagnosis of TBE in vaccinated individuals. Eukaryotic expression 
systems are mainly used to produce recombinant tick-borne encephalitis virus 
(TBEV) NS1. The expression of TBEV NS1 proteins in eukaryotic cells was 
successful, but there were some limitations. Several attempts have also been 
made to obtain the NS1 protein in Escherichia coli cells; however, they were 
unsuccessful due to the low solubility of the recombinant protein and improper 
folding. In this study, using Trx-tag as a fusion partner, soluble Trx-fused 
TBEV NS1 protein was first produced in the E. coli BL21 strain. In addition, 
insoluble Trx-fused TBEV NS1 protein was obtained when cultivation conditions 
were changed to increase the productivity. The insoluble TBEV NS1 obtained from 
inclusion bodies was solubilized using chaotropic reagents and successfully 
refolded using dialysis. Both soluble variant and successfully refolded from 
inclusion bodies variant showed immunological properties similar to the native 
TBEV NS1 protein and were recognized by specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), 
immune ascetic fluid in ELISA, western blot, and competitive analysis.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.106031
PMID: 34920135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2013 Oct;36(10):1375-84. doi: 10.1007/s00449-012-0840-z. 
Epub 2012 Oct 27.

Soft sensor control of metabolic fluxes in a recombinant Escherichia coli 
fed-batch cultivation producing green fluorescence protein.

Gustavsson R(1), Mandenius CF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology/IFM, Linköping University, 581 83, Linköping, 
Sweden.

A soft sensor approach is described for controlling metabolic overflow from 
mixed-acid fermentation and glucose overflow metabolism in a fed-batch 
cultivation for production of recombinant green fluorescence protein (GFP) in 
Escherichia coli. The hardware part of the sensor consisted of a near-infrared 
in situ probe that monitored the E. coli biomass and an HPLC analyzer equipped 
with a filtration unit that measured the overflow metabolites. The computational 
part of the soft sensor used basic kinetic equations and summations for 
estimation of specific rates and total metabolite concentrations. Two control 
strategies for media feeding of the fed-batch cultivation were evaluated: (1) 
controlling the specific rates of overflow metabolism and mixed-acid 
fermentation metabolites at a fixed pre-set target values, and (2) controlling 
the concentration of the sum of these metabolites at a set level. The results 
indicate that the latter strategy was more efficient for maintaining a high 
titer and low variability of the produced recombinant GFP protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-012-0840-z
PMID: 23104303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 10;9(3):e89038. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089038. 
eCollection 2014.

Prokaryotic soluble overexpression and purification of bioactive human growth 
hormone by fusion to thioredoxin, maltose binding protein, and protein disulfide 
isomerase.

Nguyen MT(1), Koo BK(1), Thi Vu TT(1), Song JA(1), Chong SH(1), Jeong B(1), Ryu 
HB(1), Moh SH(2), Choe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Bio-FD&C Co. Ltd., Incheon, Korea.

Human growth hormone (hGH) is synthesized by somatotroph cells of the anterior 
pituitary gland and induces cell proliferation and growth. This protein has been 
approved for the treatment of various conditions, including hGH deficiency, 
chronic renal failure, and Turner syndrome. Efficient production of hGH in 
Escherichia coli (E. coli) has proven difficult because the E. coli-expressed 
hormone tends to aggregate and form inclusion bodies, resulting in poor 
solubility. In this study, seven N-terminal fusion partners, hexahistidine 
(His6), thioredoxin (Trx), glutathione S-transferase (GST), maltose-binding 
protein (MBP), N-utilization substance protein A (NusA), protein disulfide bond 
isomerase (PDI), and the b'a' domain of PDI (PDIb'a'), were tested for soluble 
overexpression of codon-optimized hGH in E. coli. We found that MBP and hPDI 
tags significantly increased the solubility of the hormone. In addition, 
lowering the expression temperature to 18°C also dramatically increased the 
solubility of all the fusion proteins. We purified hGH from MBP-, PDIb'a'-, or 
Trx-tagged hGH expressed at 18°C in E. coli using simple chromatographic 
techniques and compared the final purity, yield, and activity of hGH to assess 
the impact of each partner protein. Purified hGH was highly pure on 
silver-stained gel and contained very low levels of endotoxin. On average, ∼37 
mg, ∼12 mg, and ∼7 mg of hGH were obtained from 500 mL-cell cultures of Trx-hGH, 
MBP-hGH, and PDIb'a'-hGH, respectively. Subsequently, hGH was analyzed using 
mass spectroscopy to confirm the presence of two intra-molecular disulfide 
bonds. The bioactivity of purified hGHs was demonstrated using Nb2-11 cell.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089038
PMCID: PMC3948679
PMID: 24614134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


343. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Apr;58(2):194-202. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.11.013. Epub 
2007 Dec 8.

A novel recombinant system for functional expression of myonecrotic snake 
phospholipase A(2) in Escherichia coli using a new fusion affinity tag.

Seto M(1), Ogawa T, Kodama K, Muramoto K, Kanayama Y, Sakai Y, Chijiwa T, Ohno 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Science, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, 1-1 Tsutsumidori amamiyamachi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 981-8555, Japan.

A novel recombinant expression system in Escherichia coli was developed using 
conger eel galectin, namely, congerin II, as an affinity tag. This system was 
applied for the functional expression of myotoxic lysine-49-phospholipase A(2) 
([Lys(49)]PLA(2)), termed BPII and obtained from Protobothrops flavoviridis (Pf) 
venom. Recombinant Pf BPII fused with a congerin tag has been successfully 
expressed as a soluble fraction and showed better quantitative yield when folded 
correctly. The solubility of the recombinant congerin II-tagged BPII increased 
up to >90% in E. coli strain JM109 when coexpressed with the molecular 
chaperones GroEL, GroES, and trigger factor (Tf). The tag protein was cleaved by 
digestion with restriction protease, such as alpha-thrombin or Microbacterium 
liquefaciens protease (MLP), to obtain completely active recombinant BPII. Thus, 
the congerin-tagged fusion systems containing the cleavage recognition site for 
alpha-thrombin or MLP were demonstrated to be highly efficient and useful for 
producing proteins of desired solubility and activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.11.013
PMID: 18207418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2009 Oct;49(10):1380-4.

[Prokaryotic expression, purification and identification of the recombinant gp90 
protein of Reticuloendotheliosis virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao L(1), Qi X, Gao H, Gao Y, Qin L, Sun F, Zhang Y, Wang X.

Author information:
(1)Division of Avian Infectious Diseases, State Key Laboratory of Veterinary 
Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy 
Agricultural Sciences, Harbin 150001, China. gaoli0820@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To obtain the recombinant gp90 protein of Reticuloendotheliosis virus 
(REV) and the anti-gp90 serum with high titer.
METHODS: Using the plasmid pMD18T-env as template, we amplified the gp90 gene 
and then cloned it into pET-28a(+). The recombinant plasmid pET28a-gp90 was 
transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), which was induced with 
isopropylthio-beta-D-galactoside(IPTG). After identification by SDS-PAGE and 
Western blotting, the purified gp90 protein was injected into Balb/c mice to 
prepare anti-gp90 serum. The specificity and titer of the antiserum were 
evaluated by IFA and the enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA).
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE and Western blotting showed that the gp90 protein was 
expressed successfully in the form of inclusion body in the recombinant E coli. 
ELISA showed the mouse anti-gp90 serum had a titer of 1:12800. Successful 
expression of recombinant gp90 protein and preparation of its antiserum laid the 
foundation for the development of diagnostic reagent of REV.

PMID: 20069886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Dec;38(2):264-71. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.09.001.

High level recombinant protein expression in Ralstonia eutropha using T7 RNA 
polymerase based amplification.

Barnard GC(1), Henderson GE, Srinivasan S, Gerngross TU.

Author information:
(1)Thayer School of Engineering & Department of Biological Sciences, Dartmouth 
College, 8000 Cummings Hall, Hanover, NH 03755, USA.

We report further development of a novel recombinant protein expression system 
based on the Gram-negative bacterium, Ralstonia eutropha. In this study, we were 
able to express soluble, active, organophosphohydrolase (OPH), a protein that is 
prone to inclusion body formation in Escherichia coli, at titers greater than 10 
g/L in high cell density fermentation. This represents a titer that is 
approximately 100-fold greater than titers previously reported in E. coli for 
this enzyme. R. eutropha strains expressing OPH were generated in two cloning 
steps. First, the T7 RNA polymerase gene was placed under the control of the 
strong, inducible phaP promoter and integrated into the phaP locus of R. 
eutropha NCIMB 40124. Second, a single copy of the oph gene under control of the 
T7 promoter was randomly integrated into the chromosome using a transposon 
cloning vector.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.09.001
PMID: 15555942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Protein Sci. 2005 Dec;14(12):2964-71. doi: 10.1110/ps.051718605.

Gateway vectors for the production of combinatorially-tagged His6-MBP fusion 
proteins in the cytoplasm and periplasm of Escherichia coli.

Nallamsetty S(1), Austin BP, Penrose KJ, Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute at Frederick, P.O. Box B, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.

Many proteins that accumulate in the form of insoluble aggregates when they are 
overproduced in Escherichia coli can be rendered soluble by fusing them to E. 
coli maltose binding protein (MBP), and this will often enable them to fold in 
to their biologically active conformations. Yet, although it is an excellent 
solubility enhancer, MBP is not a particularly good affinity tag for protein 
purification. To compensate for this shortcoming, we have engineered and 
successfully tested Gateway destination vectors for the production of dual 
His6MBP-tagged fusion proteins in the cytoplasm and periplasm of E. coli. The 
MBP moiety improves the yield and solubility of its fusion partners while the 
hexahistidine tag (His-tag) serves to facilitate their purification. The 
availability of a vector that targets His6MBP fusion proteins to the periplasm 
expands the utility of this dual tagging approach to include proteins that 
contain disulfide bonds or are toxic in the bacterial cytoplasm.

DOI: 10.1110/ps.051718605
PMCID: PMC2253240
PMID: 16322578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 May;83(1):30-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.02.014. Epub 
2012 Mar 8.

Galactose can be an inducer for production of therapeutic proteins by 
auto-induction using E. coli BL21 strains.

Xu J(1), Banerjee A, Pan SH, Li ZJ.

Author information:
(1)Biologics Process Science, Technical Operations, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Syracuse, NY 13057, United States.

Recently lactose mediated auto-induction in Escherichia coli has gained a lot of 
interest because higher protein titer could be achieved without the need to 
monitor growth and add inducer at the proper time. In this study a high level 
therapeutic protein production by auto-induction was observed in E. coli BL21 
using either T7 or tac promoters in the modified Luria Bertani (mLB) medium 
containing soy peptone instead of tryptone in Luria Bertani (LB) medium. Based 
on medium analysis and spiking experiments it was found that 0.4 mM galactose 
from the soy peptone caused the auto-induction. E. coli cultures induced by 
galactose can saturate at considerably higher density than cultures induced by 
IPTG. Galactose is not consumed by E. coli BL21. Finally it has been 
demonstrated that auto-induction can be effectively used in fed-batch 
fermentation for the industrial production of a therapeutic protein. The 
principle of galactose mediated auto-induction should be able to apply to high 
throughput microplates, shake flasks and fed-batch fermentors for clone 
screening and therapeutic protein expression in E. coli gal(-) strains such as 
most commonly used BL21.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.02.014
PMID: 22425658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Avicenna J Med Biotechnol. 2013 Jul;5(3):193-201.

A Novel Approach for High Level Expression of Soluble Recombinant Human 
Parathyroid Hormone (rhPTH 1-34) in Escherichia coli.

Hamedifar H(1), Salamat F, Saffarion M, Ghiasi M, Hosseini A, Lahiji H, Nouri Z, 
Arfae H, Mahboudi F.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Department, CinnaGen, Simindasht Industrial Area, 
Karaj, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Parathyroid hormone (PTH) secreted by parathyroid glands regulates 
the metabolism of calcium and phosphorus in bone and kidney. Thereby, it can 
stimulate bone formation, and is a promising agent in the treatment of 
osteoporosis. Mature form of PTH consists of 84 amino acids; however, the first 
34 residues of PTH cover the majority of hormonal action.
METHODS: In this study, the fusion form of highly soluble rhPTH was expressed at 
high level in Escherichia coli (E. coli). His6-thioredoxin as an extension for 
rhPTH improves the solubility of inclusion body. His6-thioredoxin-hPTH (1-34) 
was ligated into pET32a expression vector. The insertion of 5 amino acids 
(Asp-Asp-Asp-Asp-Lys) in the N-terminal of PTH made this protein to be 
digestable specifically by enterokinase enzyme. The fusion form of rhPTH was 
harvested and purified by immobilized affinity chromatography followed by 
digestion with enterokinase. Digested rhPTH was purified by applying on size 
exclusion and ion exchange chromatography to get the highest purity.
RESULTS: The mass spectroscopy analysis shows rhPTH molecular weight was 4117.5 
Da. The purity was measured by HPLC column which showed more than 97%. Bioassay 
analysis of rhPTH was performed on rat sarcoma cell UMR-106 in parallel with 
commercially available rhPTH, Forteo. The result was measured through 
immunofluorescence detection kit. The data showed that the potency of rhPTH was 
comparable with commercially available medicine.
CONCLUSION: Thioredoxin was applied as a fusion partner for production of highly 
soluble rhPTH. This specific fusion partner increased protein solubility and 
decreased protease reactivity. Purification process was optimized for high 
recovery and for purity more than 99%. As its biological activity is comparable 
with marketed drug, this protein is qualified for biopharmaceutical usage.

PMCID: PMC3732869
PMID: 23919123


349. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Jun;110:122-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.02.008. Epub 
2015 Feb 26.

Expression, purification and characterization of the receptor-binding domain of 
botulinum neurotoxin serotype B as a vaccine candidate.

Ben David A(1), Torgeman A(1), Barnea A(1), Zichel R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Israel Institute for Biological Research, Ness 
Ziona, Israel.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Israel Institute for Biological Research, Ness 
Ziona, Israel. Electronic address: ranz@iibr.gov.il.

The receptor-binding domain of botulinum neurotoxins (the HC fragment) is a 
promising vaccine candidate. Among the HC fragments of the seven BoNT serotypes, 
the expression of HC/B in Escherichia coli is considered especially challenging 
due to its accumulation as a non-soluble protein aggregate. In this study, the 
effects of different parameters on the expression of soluble HC/B were evaluated 
using a screening assay that included growing the bacterium at a small scale, a 
chemical cell lysis step, and a specific ELISA. The highest soluble HC/B 
expression levels were obtained when the bacterium E. coli BL21(DE3)+pET-9a-HC/B 
was grown in terrific broth media at 18°C without induction. Under these 
conditions, the yield was an order of magnitude higher than previously reported. 
Standard purification of the protein using a nickel column resulted in a low 
purity of HC/B. However, the addition of an acidic wash step prior to protein 
elution released a major protein contaminant and significantly increased the 
purity level. Mass spectrometry analysis identified the contaminant as ArnA, an 
E. coli protein that often contaminates recombinant His-tagged protein 
preparations. The purified HC/B was highly immunogenic, protecting mice from a 
10(6) LD50 challenge after a single vaccination and generating a neutralizing 
titer of 50IU/ml after three immunizations. Moreover, the functionality of the 
protein was preserved, as it inhibited BoNT/B intoxication in vivo, presumably 
due to blockade of the neurotoxin protein receptor synaptotagmin.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.02.008
PMID: 25727047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Proteome Sci. 2005 May 18;3(1):3. doi: 10.1186/1477-5956-3-3.

Target selection of soluble protein complexes for structural proteomics studies.

Shen W(1), Yun S, Tam B, Dalal K, Pio FF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University, 
8888 University Drive, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada, V5A 1S6. fpio@sfu.ca.

BACKGROUND: Protein expression in E. coli is the most commonly used system to 
produce protein for structural studies, because it is fast and inexpensive and 
can produce large quantity of proteins. However, when proteins from other 
species such as mammalian are produced in this system, problems of protein 
expression and solubility arise 1. Structural genomics project are currently 
investigating proteomics pipelines that would produce sufficient quantities of 
recombinant proteins for structural studies of protein complexes. To investigate 
how the E. coli protein expression system could be used for this purpose, we 
purified apoptotic binary protein complexes formed between members of the 
Caspase Associated Recruitment Domain (CARD) family. RESULTS: A combinatorial 
approach to the generation of protein complexes was performed between members of 
the CARD domain protein family that have the ability to form hetero-dimers 
between each other. In our method, each gene coding for a specific protein 
partner is cloned in pET-28b (Novagen) and PGEX2T (Amersham) expression vectors. 
All combinations of protein complexes are then obtained by reconstituting 
complexes from purified components in native conditions, after 
denaturation-renaturation or co-expression. Our study applied to 14 soluble CARD 
domain proteins revealed that co-expression studies perform better than native 
and denaturation-renaturation methods. In this study, we confirm existing 
interactions obtained in vivoin mammalian cells and also predict new 
interactions. CONCLUSION: The simplicity of this screening method could be 
easily scaled up to identify soluble protein complexes for structural genomic 
projects. This study reports informative statistics on the solubility of human 
protein complexes expressed in E.coli belonging to the human CARD protein 
family.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-5956-3-3
PMCID: PMC1156946
PMID: 15904526


351. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2011 Sep;38(9):1219-27. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-010-0900-9. Epub 2010 Nov 21.

Enhanced L-phenylalanine production by recombinant Escherichia coli BR-42 
(pAP-B03) resistant to bacteriophage BP-1 via a two-stage feeding approach.

Zhou H(1), Liao X, Liu L, Wang T, Du G, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China.

The L-phenylalanine (L-Phe) production by Escherichia coli WSH-Z06 (pAP-B03) was 
frequently prevented by bacteriophage BP-1 infestation. To cope with the 
bacteriophage BP-1 problem for an improved L-Phe production, one bacteriophage 
BP-1-resistant mutant, E. coli BR-42, was obtained from 416 mutant colonies of 
E. coli WSH-Z06 after N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (NTG) mutagenesis by 
selection for resistance to bacteriophage BP-1. The recombinant E. coli 
BR-42-carrying plasmid pAP-B03 had a high capacity in L-Phe production and a 
remarkable tolerance to 1 × 10(10) pfu (plaque-forming unit)/ml bacteriophage 
stock. For an enhanced L-Phe production by E. coli BR-42 (pAP-B03), the effects 
of different feeding strategies including pH-stat, constant rate feeding, linear 
decreasing rate feeding, and exponential feeding on L-Phe production were 
investigated; and a two-stage feeding strategy, namely exponential feeding at μ 
(set) = 0.18 h(-1) in the first 20 h and a following linear varying rate feeding 
with F = (-0.55 × t + 18.6) ml/h, was developed to improve L-Phe production. 
With this two-stage feeding approach, a maximum L-Phe titer of 57.63 g/l with a 
high L-Phe productivity (1.15 g/l/h) was achieved, which was 15% higher than the 
highest level (50 g/l) reported so far according to our knowledge. The 
recombinant E. coli BR-42 (pAP-B03) is a potential L-Phe over-producer in 
substantial prevention of bacteriophage BP-1 infestation compared to its parent 
strain WSH-Z06 (pAP-B03).

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-010-0900-9
PMID: 21104105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Biotechnol. 2005 Jan 12;115(1):23-34. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2004.07.011.

An efficient expression system for the production of functionally active human 
LKB1.

Martínez-Torrecuadrada JL(1), Romero S, Núñez A, Alfonso P, Sánchez-Céspedes M, 
Casal JI.

Author information:
(1)Protein Technology Unit, Biotechnology Program, Centro Nacional de 
Investigaciones Oncologicas (CNIO), Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, 28029 Madrid, 
Spain.

Human LKB1, also known as STK11, is a tumour-suppression protein that mediates 
important functions in cellular proliferation and polarization. It might 
constitute an important target in cancer therapy. In order to produce large 
amounts of recombinant protein for biochemical and functional studies, a 
full-length cDNA clone was subcloned and expressed in Escherichia coli and 
insect cells. Although fusion proteins corresponding to LKB1 with 6xHis, GST and 
MBP tags could be overexpressed in E. coli, only MBP-LKB1 was recovered in a 
soluble, but heavily degraded form. Further studies demonstrated that this 
protein was not functional. Subsequent expression in insect cells of LKB1 with 
6xHis and GST tags yielded insoluble products also. However, when chaperones 
Hsp70 and its cofactors Hsp40 and Hsdj were co-expressed with GST-LKB1, a clear 
increase in the solubility of the final protein was obtained. Moreover, this 
soluble, purified recombinant GST-LKB1 demonstrated to be a phosphoprotein, with 
at least residue Ser325 phosphorylated. The purified protein was functionally 
active as being able to demonstrate autophosphorylation in the absence of any 
associated kinase.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2004.07.011
PMID: 15607222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Biomed Environ Sci. 2003 Jun;16(2):149-56.

Purification and immunity analysis of recombinant 6His-HPT protein expressed in 
E. coli.

Yang LC(1), Zhu Z, Yang XG.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Trace Element Nutrition of the Ministry of Health, China, 
Institute of Nutrition and Food Safety, Chinese Center for Diseases Control and 
Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain HPT protein (Hygromycin B Phosphotransferase), a kind of 
plant selective maker gene product expressed from E. coli and to prepare the 
polyclonal antibody (pAbs) against it.
METHODS: HPT cDNA fragment was obtained by PCR and was inserted into the 
prokaryotic expressing vector pBV222. Then the constructed recombinant plasmid 
pBV222-HPT was transferred into E. coli DH5alpha for HPT expression. The 
recombinant expressing system was confirmed by restriction endonuclease 
digestion, DNA sequencing and protein expression. E. coli cells were lysed by 
sonication and detergent dissolution. After cell membrane was extracted, the 
inclusion bodies were denatured by 8 mol/L Urea and purified with metal chelate 
affinity chromatography on Ni-NTA agarose under denaturing condition. The 
purified 6His-HPT was characterized by SDS-PAGE, and used to immunize rabbit. 
The titer and specificity of antisera were detected by ELISA and Western blot 
respecitively.
RESULTS: Analysis of DNA sequence and restricted enzymes showed that the 
sequence of PBV222-HPT plasmid was correct. The amount of recombinant HPT 
expressed in E. coli accounted for 30% of total cellular proteins. From 1 liter 
of fermentative bacteria about 22 milligrams of pure recombinant HPT was 
isolated with purity above 95%. The recombinant HPT protein could produce high 
titer antiserum in rabbits and show good immunity activity. Western blot showed 
specific binding reaction between the antiserum to the purified 6His-HPT protein 
and their expressed products (plants protein and bacterial protein).
CONCLUSION: HPT protein can be expressed and purified from E. coli by a 
relatively simple method, which has high immunity activity.

PMID: 12964788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Sep;24(9):881-3.

[Molecular cloning, protein expression and preparation of polyclonal antibody of 
ficolin-A].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou J(1), Sun P, Zhang XL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Hubei Province Key Laboratory of Allergy and 
Immunology, State Key Laboratory of Virology, Wuhan University School of 
Medicine, Wuhan 430071, China.

AIM: To clone mouse ficolin-A cDNA, construct eukaryotic and prokaryotic 
expression vectors and prepare polyclonal antibody of ficolin-A.
METHODS: Full length of the ficolin-A cDNA fragment from the liver of newly born 
C57BL/6 mouse was amplified by RT-PCR by the use of GeneRacer kit. Then it was 
cloned into the eukaryotic vector pVAX-1 and prokaryotic vector pGEX-KG and 
expressed as a fusion protein in E.coli BL21 induced by IPTG. The expressed 
GST-ficolin-A fusion protein was purified via GST-Sepharose 4B Column and 
identified by SDS-PAGE and Western blot. The antibody against ficolin-A was 
prepared and its titer was identified.
RESULTS: The recombinant eukaryotic vector pVAX-1-ficolin-A and prokaryotic 
expression vector pGEX-KG-ficolin-A were successfully constructed. The 
recombinant GST-ficolin-A protein was overexpressed in E.coli. The relative 
molecular mass (M(r)) of the expressed product was identical with the predicted 
value. The antibody was prepared successfully.
CONCLUSION: We have successfully got the constructions of the recombinant 
eukaryotic vector pVAX-1-ficolin-A, prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-KG-ficolin-A and the purified recombinant ficolin-A protein in E.coli BL21. 
These will be helpful for the further investigation of the biological function 
of ficolin-A.

PMID: 18782522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Jan 25;10:824859. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.824859. 
eCollection 2022.

Metabolic Engineering of Escherichia coli for Ectoine Production With a 
Fermentation Strategy of Supplementing the Amino Donor.

Zhang H(1)(2), Liang Z(1)(2), Zhao M(1)(2), Ma Y(1)(2), Luo Z(1)(2), Li S(1)(2), 
Xu H(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, Nanjing, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Light Industry, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
China.
(3)Jiangsu National Synergetic Innovation Center for Advanced Materials, Nanjing 
Tech University, Nanjing, China.

Ectoine, an osmotic pressure-compensated solute, is used in the food, 
agriculture, medicine, and cosmetics industries due to its ability to protect 
macromolecules. In this study, an ectoine-producing variant of Escherichia coli, 
ET08, was genetically constructed by introducing the ectABC gene cluster and 
eliminating metabolic pathways involving lysine and pyruvate. Medium 
optimization enhanced ectoine production from 1.87 to 10.2 g/L. Analysis of the 
transcriptional levels revealed that supplementation with ammonium sulfate 
enhanced the metabolic flux towards the biosynthesis of ectoine. Furthermore, by 
optimizing the copy number of ectA, ectB, and ectC, the recombinant E. coli ET11 
(ectA:ectB:ectC = 1:2:1) produced 12.9 g/L ectoine in the shake flask and 
53.2 g/L ectoine in a fed-batch fermenter, representing the highest ectoine 
titer produced by E. coli, which has great industrial prospects.

Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Liang, Zhao, Ma, Luo, Li and Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.824859
PMCID: PMC8822159
PMID: 35145959

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


356. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1177:71-80. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-1034-2_6.

SUMO as a solubility tag and in vivo cleavage of SUMO fusion proteins with Ulp1.

Kuo D(1), Nie M, Courey AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, Molecular Biology Institute, 
University of California, 607 Charles E. Young Drive, East, Los Angeles, CA, 
90095-1569, USA.

Expression of proteins in E. coli is often plagued by insolubility of the 
protein of interest. A solution to this problem is the expression of proteins as 
fusions to solubility tags such as the SUMO protein. SUMO fusion proteins can be 
cleaved to remove the SUMO moiety using SUMO-specific proteases such as Ulp1. 
Here, we describe the use of vectors for the expression of recombinant proteins 
in E. coli as fusions to the Drosophila SUMO protein. This includes a vector 
that encodes not only the SUMO tagged protein of interest but also SUMO-tagged 
Ulp1. Coexpression of these two proteins results in the in vivo cleavage of the 
protein of interest from the SUMO tag, while still leaving the protein of 
interest in a form that can be purified from a soluble cell lysate by nickel 
affinity chromatography.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-1034-2_6
PMID: 24943315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Jan;51(1):102-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.07.003. Epub 
2006 Jul 12.

An improved strategy for high-level production of TEV protease in Escherichia 
coli and its purification and characterization.

Fang L(1), Jia KZ, Tang YL, Ma DY, Yu M, Hua ZC.

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Department of 
Biochemistry, College of Life Science, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, PR 
China.

Because of its stringent sequence specificity, tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease 
emerges as a useful reagent with wide application in the cleavage of recombinant 
fusion proteins. However, the solubility of TEV protease expressed in 
Escherichia coli is extremely low. In the present study, we introduced a more 
efficient system to improve and facilitate the soluble production of TEV 
protease in E. coli. Optimal expression of soluble His6-TEV was achieved by 
examining the contribution of chaperone co-expression and lower temperature 
fermentation. When further purified by Ni(2+) affinity chromatography, 65mg of 
His6-TEV was isolated with purity over 95% from 1L of culture. The enzyme 
activity of His6-TEV was generally characterized by using GST-EGFP and 
His6-L-TNF fusion protein as substrates, which contained a TEV cleavage site 
between two moieties.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.07.003
PMID: 16919473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Bioeng Bugs. 2010 Mar-Apr;1(2):148-50. doi: 10.4161/bbug.1.2.11048. Epub 2009 
Dec 29.

Cross-system excision of chaperone-mediated proteolysis in chaperone-assisted 
recombinant protein production.

Martínez-Alonso M(1), Villaverde A, Ferrer-Miralles N.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina and Departament de Genètica i de 
Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, and CIBER de Bioingeniería, 
Biomateriales y Nanomedicina, Barcelona, Spain.

Comment on
    Martínez-Alonso M, Gómez-Sebastián S, Escribano JM, Saiz J-C, 
Ferrer-Miralles N, Villaverde A. DnaK/DnaJ-assisted recombinant protein 
production in Trichoplusia ni larvae. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 
2010;86:633–639.

Main Escherichia coli cytosolic chaperones such as DnaK are key components of 
the control quality network designed to minimize the prevalence of polypeptides 
with aberrant conformations. This is achieved by both favoring refolding 
activities but also stimulating proteolytic degradation of folding reluctant 
species. This last activity is responsible for the decrease of the proteolytic 
stability of recombinant proteins when co-produced along with DnaK, where an 
increase in solubility might be associated to a decrease in protein yield. 
However, when DnaK and its co-chaperone DnaJ are co-produced in cultured insect 
cells or whole insect larvae (and expectedly, in other heterologous hosts), only 
positive, folding-related effects of these chaperones are observed, in absence 
of proteolysis-mediated reduction of recombinant protein yield.

© 2010 Landes Bioscience

DOI: 10.4161/bbug.1.2.11048
PMCID: PMC3026456
PMID: 21326941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Aug;90(2):186-94. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.06.008. Epub 
2013 Jun 20.

Bacillus subtilis alkaline phosphatase IV acquires activity only late at the 
stationary phase when produced in Escherichia coli. Overexpression and 
characterization of the recombinant enzyme.

Koksharov M(1), Lv C, Zhai X, Ugarova N, Huang E.

Author information:
(1)Group of Reagents Technologies, Research Center of Biomedicine and Health, 
Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311121, China. 
mkoksharov@gmail.com

The availability of recombinant monomeric alkaline phosphatase (AP) is highly 
desirable in analytical applications involving AP fusion proteins. The 
cobalt-dependant alkaline phosphatase IV from Bacillus subtilis (BSAP), which 
was reported to be strongly monomeric, was overexpressed in Escherichia coli 
using pET autoinduction system as a cytoplasmic protein without export signal 
sequence. After 1 day of growth, when the E. coli culture was near the 
stationary phase (standard time to harvest protein in this expression method), 
high amounts of BSAP were produced but the soluble fraction of BSAP was nearly 
inactive: the AP activity in the cell-free extract was near the background 
level. However, further incubation of bacterial culture lead to a tremendous 
increase in AP activity which was maximal at the 3rd day of incubation and was 
48-100 times higher than at the 1st day of growth. The recombinant BSAP was 
purified by metal-chelate chromatography and characterized. Typically, 90-140 mg 
of active protein was produced in 1L of culture (20 g wet cells). BSAP shows 515 
U/mg activity at optimum conditions (pH 11 and 0.8-2M NaCl). Contrary to the 
previous report on the native enzyme, BSAP was found to be dimeric and showed 
only negligible diesterase activity. The observed unusual late activation of 
BSAP indicates that prolonged incubation at the stationary phase may be useful 
for functional expression of some problematic proteins in E. coli.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.06.008
PMID: 23791800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 May;30(5):513-6.

[The expression of human IL-37 in E.coli and preparation and characterization of 
mouse anti-IL-37 antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao F(1), He S(1), He L(1), Lin M(1), Wang S(1), Chen Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Medical Molecular Diagnostics, Guangdong Medical 
College, Dongguan 523808, China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Medical Molecular Diagnostics, Department of 
Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Dongguan 523808, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a prokaryotic expression system for interleukin-37 
(IL-37) and prepare its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The gene encoding mature interleukin-37 (IL-37m) was amplified by PCR 
and subcloned into prokaryotic expression vector pET28a. Then the recombinant 
plasmid pET28a/IL-37m was transformed into E.coli Rosetta and expressed under 
IPTG induction. The recombinant IL-37m was purified through Ni²⁺;-NT agarose gel 
column and the purified recombinant IL-37m was used as immunogen to immunize the 
BALB/c mouse. The titer and specificity of the mouse anti-IL-37 antibody were 
analyzed by ELISA, Western blotting and immunohistochemical staining, 
respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant IL-37 was successfully expressed and purified, and the 
mouse anit-IL-37 antibody was successfully prepared. ELISA showed that the titer 
of the antiserum was 1:128 000. Western blot analysis revealed that the antibody 
reacted with IL-37 specifically. Immunohistochemical staining detection 
manifested the antibody could recognize the native IL-37.
CONCLUSION: The mouse anti-IL-37 antibody with high titer and specificity was 
successfully prepared.

PMID: 24796748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Protein Sci. 2006 Jan;15(1):182-9. doi: 10.1110/ps.051812706. Epub 2005 Dec 1.

Comparison of SUMO fusion technology with traditional gene fusion systems: 
enhanced expression and solubility with SUMO.

Marblestone JG(1), Edavettal SC, Lim Y, Lim P, Zuo X, Butt TR.

Author information:
(1)LifeSensors Inc., 271 Great Valley Parkway, Malvern, PA 19355, USA.

Despite the availability of numerous gene fusion systems, recombinant protein 
expression in Escherichia coli remains difficult. Establishing the best fusion 
partner for difficult-to-express proteins remains empirical. To determine which 
fusion tags are best suited for difficult-to-express proteins, a comparative 
analysis of the newly described SUMO fusion system with a variety of commonly 
used fusion systems was completed. For this study, three model proteins, 
enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP), matrix metalloprotease-13 (MMP13), 
and myostatin (growth differentiating factor-8, GDF8), were fused to the C 
termini of maltose-binding protein (MBP), glutathione S-transferase (GST), 
thioredoxin (TRX), NUS A, ubiquitin (Ub), and SUMO tags. These constructs were 
expressed in E. coli and evaluated for expression and solubility. As expected, 
the fusion tags varied in their ability to produce tractable quantities of 
soluble eGFP, MMP13, and GDF8. SUMO and NUS A fusions enhanced expression and 
solubility of recombinant proteins most dramatically. The ease at which SUMO and 
NUS A fusion tags were removed from their partner proteins was then determined. 
SUMO fusions are cleaved by the natural SUMO protease, while an AcTEV protease 
site had to be engineered between NUS A and its partner protein. A kinetic 
analysis showed that the SUMO and AcTEV proteases had similar KM values, but 
SUMO protease had a 25-fold higher kcat than AcTEV protease, indicating a more 
catalytically efficient enzyme. Taken together, these results demonstrate that 
SUMO is superior to commonly used fusion tags in enhancing expression and 
solubility with the distinction of generating recombinant protein with native 
sequences.

DOI: 10.1110/ps.051812706
PMCID: PMC2242369
PMID: 16322573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Nov;21(6):727-30.

[Prokaryotic expression and purification of antifreeze protein DAFP and 
preparation of its antiserum].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Y(1), Lu GD, Xue N, Zhang FC, Ma J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Xinjiang University, Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic 
Engineering, Urumqi 830046, China.

AIM: To prepare the Dendroides canadensis antifreeze proteins (DAFP) specific 
mouse antiserum.
METHODS: According to the published antifreeze protein gene (gi: 2737939) from 
Dendroides canadensis in GenBank, one isoform of the gene was chemically 
synthesized and cloned into the expression vector pGEX-4T-1 and pMAL-p2x 
respectively and expressed in E.coli. The expressed fusion protein was purified 
through Glutathione Sepharose 4B column, and then used to immunize the mice for 
preparing the specific the antibody. The titer and specificity of the antibody 
were analyzed by ELISA and Western blot, respectively.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the DAFP was expressed in E.coli. The 
relative molecular masses of expressed fusion protein was 38,000. The titer of 
antibody was 1:5,000. Western blot analysis showed the expressed protein of 
BL21/pGEX-4T-1-dafp and TB1/pMAL-p2x-dafp could react specifically with DAFP 
antibody.
CONCLUSION: The DAFP was expressed in E.coli and its specific antibody was 
prepared successfully.

PMID: 16256036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e20307. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020307. Epub 2011 May 31.

Enhanced in vitro refolding of fibroblast growth factor 15 with the assistance 
of SUMO fusion partner.

Kong B(1), Guo GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology, and Therapeutics, University of 
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas, United States of America.

Fibroblast growth factor 15 (Fgf15) is the mouse orthologue of human FGF19. 
Fgf15 is highly expressed in the ileum and functions as an endocrine signal to 
regulate liver function, including bile acid synthesis, hepatocyte proliferation 
and insulin sensitivity. In order to fully understand the function of Fgf15, 
methods are needed to produce pure Fgf15 protein in the prokaryotic system. 
However, when expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli), the recombinant Fgf15 
protein was insoluble and found only in inclusion bodies. In the current study, 
we report a method to produce recombinant Fgf15 protein in E. coli through the 
use of small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) fusion tag. Even though the SUMO 
has been shown to strongly improve protein solubility and expression levels, our 
studies suggest that the SUMO does not improve Fgf15 protein solubility. 
Instead, proper refolding of Fgf15 protein was achieved when Fgf15 was expressed 
as a partner protein of the fusion tag SUMO, followed by in vitro dialysis 
refolding. After refolding, the N-terminal SUMO tag was cleaved from the 
recombinant Fgf15 fusion protein by ScUlp1 (Ubiquitin-Like Protein-Specific 
Protease 1 from S. cerevisiae). With or without the SUMO tag, the refolded Fgf15 
protein was biologically active, as revealed by its ability to reduce hepatic 
Cyp7a1 mRNA levels in mice. In addition, recombinant Fgf15 protein suppressed 
Cyp7a1 mRNA levels in a dose-dependent manner. In summary, we have developed a 
successful method to express functional Fgf15 protein in prokaryotic cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020307
PMCID: PMC3105028
PMID: 21655243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


364. Polymers (Basel). 2019 Jul 14;11(7):1184. doi: 10.3390/polym11071184.

High-Level Conversion of l-lysine into Cadaverine by Escherichia coli Whole Cell 
Biocatalyst Expressing Hafnia alvei l-lysine Decarboxylase.

Kim HT(1), Baritugo KA(2), Oh YH(1), Kang KH(1), Jung YJ(1)(3), Jang S(1), Song 
BK(1), Kim IK(4), Lee MO(5)(6), Hwang YT(5), Park K(3), Park SJ(7), Joo JC(8).

Author information:
(1)Bio-Based Chemistry Research Center, Advanced Convergent Chemistry Division, 
Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology, P.O. Box 107, 141 Gajeong-ro, 
Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34114, Korea.
(2)Division of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Ewha Womans 
University, 52 Ewhayeodae-gil, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 03760, Korea.
(3)Department of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Hongik University, 2639 
Sejong-ro, Sinan-ri, Jochiwon-eup, Sejong-si 30016, Korea.
(4)Bioprocess R&D Center, DAESANG Corp., Icheon-si, Gyeonggi-do 17384, Korea.
(5)Lotte Chemical, 115 Gajeongbuk-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34110, Korea.
(6)Department of Chemistry, KAIST, 291, Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34141, 
Korea.
(7)Division of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Ewha Womans 
University, 52 Ewhayeodae-gil, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 03760, Korea. 
parksj93@ewha.ac.kr.
(8)Bio-Based Chemistry Research Center, Advanced Convergent Chemistry Division, 
Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology, P.O. Box 107, 141 Gajeong-ro, 
Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34114, Korea. jcjoo@krict.re.kr.

Cadaverine is a C5 diamine monomer used for the production of bio-based 
polyamide 510. Cadaverine is produced by the decarboxylation of l-lysine using a 
lysine decarboxylase (LDC). In this study, we developed recombinant Escherichia 
coli strains for the expression of LDC from Hafnia alvei. The resulting 
recombinant XBHaLDC strain was used as a whole cell biocatalyst for the 
high-level bioconversion of l-lysine into cadaverine without the supplementation 
of isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) for the induction of protein 
expression and pyridoxal phosphate (PLP), a key cofactor for an LDC reaction. 
The comparison of results from enzyme characterization of E. coli and H. alvei 
LDC revealed that H. alvei LDC exhibited greater bioconversion ability than E. 
coli LDC due to higher levels of protein expression in all cellular fractions 
and a higher specific activity at 37 °C (1825 U/mg protein > 1003 U/mg protein). 
The recombinant XBHaLDC and XBEcLDC strains were constructed for the high-level 
production of cadaverine. Recombinant XBHaLDC produced a 1.3-fold higher titer 
of cadaverine (6.1 g/L) than the XBEcLDC strain (4.8 g/L) from 10 g/L of 
l-lysine. Furthermore, XBHaLDC, concentrated to an optical density (OD600) of 
50, efficiently produced 136 g/L of cadaverine from 200 g/L of l-lysine (97% 
molar yield) via an IPTG- and PLP-free whole cell bioconversion reaction. 
Cadaverine synthesized via a whole cell biocatalyst reaction using XBHaLDC was 
purified to polymer grade, and purified cadaverine was successfully used for the 
synthesis of polyamide 510. In conclusion, an IPTG- and PLP-free whole cell 
bioconversion process of l-lysine into cadaverine, using recombinant XBHaLDC, 
was successfully utilized for the production of bio-based polyamide 510, which 
has physical and thermal properties similar to polyamide 510 synthesized from 
chemical-grade cadaverine.

DOI: 10.3390/polym11071184
PMCID: PMC6680443
PMID: 31337154

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


365. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Feb;28(2):170-3.

[Preparation of polyclonal antibody and prokaryotic expression of recombinant 
protein RelA from Mycobacterium tuberculosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Yi ZJ(1), Fu YR, Xu FL, Gao KS, Li M, Li JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Weifang Medical University, Weifang, 
China. yizhengjun@126.com

AIM: To prepare polyclonal antibodies against RelA protein of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis.
METHODS: RelA gene segment was inserted into pET-32a(+) and the recombinant 
protein RelA was expressed in E.coli under IPTG induction.The protein was 
purified and identified by SDS-PAGE and Western blot.Polyclonal antibody to RelA 
was got by immunizing rabbits with the protein. Quality and quantity of the 
antibody was identified.
RESULTS: RelA gene segment was successfully inserted into pET-32a(+) and 
recombinant protein RelA was obtained.The polyclonal antibody to RelA had a good 
specificity, and the titer reached more than 1:6 400.
CONCLUSION: RelA recombinant protein and rabbit anti-RelA polyclonal antibody 
with high specificity were obtained, which provided good tools for further 
studying functional characterization of RelA.

PMID: 22304778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Microb Cell Fact. 2022 Feb 5;21(1):20. doi: 10.1186/s12934-022-01749-w.

Multimodal approaches for the improvement of the cellular folding of a 
recombinant iron regulatory protein in E. coli.

Ravitchandirane G(1)(2), Bandhu S(1), Chaudhuri TK(3).

Author information:
(1)Kusuma School of Biological Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 
Hauz Khas, New Delhi, 110016, India.
(2)Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd., Hyderabad, India.
(3)Kusuma School of Biological Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 
Hauz Khas, New Delhi, 110016, India. tkchaudhuri@bioschool.iitd.ac.in.

BACKGROUND: During the recombinant protein expression, most heterologous 
proteins expressed in E. coli cell factories are generated as insoluble and 
inactive aggregates, which prohibit E. coli from being employed as an expression 
host despite its numerous advantages and ease of use. The yeast mitochondrial 
aconitase protein, which has a tendency to aggregate when expressed in E. coli 
cells in the absence of heterologous chaperones GroEL/ES was utilised as a model 
to investigate how the modulation of physiological stimuli in the host cell can 
increase protein solubility. The presence of folding modulators such as 
exogenous molecular chaperones or osmolytes, as well as process variables such 
as incubation temperature, inducer concentrations, growth media are all 
important for cellular folding and are investigated in this study. This study 
also investigated how the cell's stress response system activates and protects 
the proteins from aggregation.
RESULTS: The cells exposed to osmolytes plus a pre-induction heat shock showed a 
substantial increase in recombinant aconitase activity when combined with 
modulation of process conditions. The concomitant GroEL/ES expression further 
assists the folding of these soluble aggregates and increases the functional 
protein molecules in the cytoplasm of the recombinant E. coli cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The recombinant E. coli cells enduring physiological stress provide 
a cytosolic environment for the enhancement in the solubility and activity of 
the recombinant proteins. GroEL/ES-expressing cells not only aided in the 
folding of recombinant proteins, but also had an effect on the physiology of the 
expression host. The improvement in the specific growth rate and aconitase 
production during chaperone GroEL/ES co-expression is attributed to the 
reduction in overall cellular stress caused by the expression host's 
aggregation-prone recombinant protein expression.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-022-01749-w
PMCID: PMC8818239
PMID: 35123481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: An Indian patent application (2437/DEL/2015) has 
been filed for the technology/invention disclosed in this presentation. The 
authors declare that there is no conflict of interest in the present research 
project.


367. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Nov;30(11):1166-9.

[The expression and antibody preparation of S100A10 protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Xin D(1), Zou X(2), Zuo M(3), Liu C(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Biology, Three Gorges University, Yichang 443002; 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, People's Hospital of China Three Gorges 
University, Yichang 443000, China.
(2)Institute of Molecular and Biology, Three Gorges University, Yichang 443002, 
China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, People's Hospital of China Three 
Gorges University, Yichang 443000, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare S100A10 protein and its specific polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The full-length gene fragment of S100A10 was amplified by PCR, and then 
cloned into pET28a(+) prokaryotic expression vector. After transformation, the 
vector was induced to express the recombinant (S100A10)(2) protein by IPTG in 
E.coli BL21 (DE3). The recombinant (S100A10)(2) was then purified by Ni-NTA 
resin. (S100A10)(2)-specific polyclonal antibody was prepared using the purified 
recombinant (S100A10)(2) protein as antigen to inoculate rabbit intradermally. 
The title and specificity of the polyclonal antibody were determined by ELISA 
and Western blotting.
RESULTS: The study successfully constructed the prokaryotic recombinant 
expression vector pET28a(+)-(S100A10)(2), and obtained the purified recombinant 
(S100A10)(2) protein and polyclonal antibody with high titer and specificity.
CONCLUSION: The prokaryotic expression and purification system for S100A10 has 
been established and polyclonal antibody of (S100A10)(2) been prepared, which 
provides helpful fools for further researches on S100A10.

PMID: 25374081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Huazhong Univ Sci Technolog Med Sci. 2007 Jun;27(3):221-4. doi: 
10.1007/s11596-007-0301-0.

The immunity induced by recombinant spike proteins of SARS coronavirus in Balb/c 
mice.

Qin L(1), Wang X, Wu S, Yuan S, Huang D, Lei M, Pan H, Lin Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

The immune effect of two recombinant protein fragments of spike protein in 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV) was investigated in 
Balb/c mice. Two partial spike gene fragments S1 (322 1464 bp) and S2 (2170 2814 
bp) of SARS coronavirus were amplified by RT-PCR, and cloned into pET-23a 
prokaryotic expression vector, then transformed into competent Escherichia E. 
coli BL21 (DE3)(pLysS) respectively. Recombinant proteins were expressed and 
purified by Ni2+ immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography. The purified 
proteins mixed with complete Freund adjuvant were injected into Balb/c mice 
three times at a two-week interval. High titer antibody was detected in the 
serum of immunized Balb/c mice, and mice immunized with S1 protein produced high 
titer IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b and IgG3, while those immunized with S2 protein 
produced high titer IgG1, IgG2a, but lower titer IgG2b and IgG3. Serum 
IFN-concentration was increased significantly but the concentrations of Il-2, 
IL-4 and IL-10 had no significant change. And a marked increase was observed in 
the number of spleen CD8+ T cells. The results showed that recombinant proteins 
of SARS coronavirus spike protein induced hormonal and cellular immune response 
in Balb/c mice.

DOI: 10.1007/s11596-007-0301-0
PMCID: PMC7088728
PMID: 17641827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2005 Feb;27(1):42-7.

[Expression of a human myofibrillogenesis regulator 1 gene in E. coli and its 
immunogenicity].

[Article in Chinese]

Li TB(1), Hu Y, Feng S, Zuo ZY, Wang YG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbial Pathway Engineering, Institute of Medicinal 
Biotechnology, CAMS and PUMC, Beijing 100050, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the expression of human myofibrillogenesis regulator 1 
(MR-1) gene in E. coli and obtain the MR-1 protein and its antibody for further 
investigation of its biological function.
METHODS: Expression vectors pGEX-5X-1, pET30a (+), and pET24a (+), as well as 
host strain E. coli BL21 (DE3) and BL21-CodonPlus (DE3) -RIL were used for 
expression of MR-1. MR-1 N-terminal with GST or T7-tag or C-terminal with 
His-tag, separately, or N terminal with T7-tag and C terminal with His-tag, 
simultaneously, were fused in plasmids pGEX-5X-1, pET30a (+) , and pET24a (+). 
The expressed MR-1-T protein, separated and purified by preparative SDS-PAGE, 
was applied to immunize the rabbits. The titer of the antibody was assayed by 
ELISA and its immunogenicity was tested by Western blot with pcDNA3/MR-1 
transfected human breast cancer cell MCF7.
RESULTS: The MR-1 protein was successfully expressed as inclusion body by fusing 
its N-terminal with T7-tag in E. coli BL21-CodonPlus (DE3) -RIL. MR-1 protein 
was purified by electro-elution from SDS-PAGE gel. Using this purified protein, 
polyclonal antibody in rabbit against MR-1 was essentially generated. ELISA and 
Western blot showed the titer of this antibody was about 1:10(5) with high 
immunogenicity.
CONCLUSIONS: The N-terminal fusion tag is the most important mechanism for MR-1 
expression. The polyclonal antibody of the generated MR-1 protein in E. coli may 
be applied for its further biological function studies.

PMID: 15782492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2406:339-358. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_20.

Optimizing Chaperone Removal Strategy from Overexpressed Recombinant Proteins : 
GNE, a Case Study.

Sharma S(1), Bora RS(2), Saini KS(3), Arya R(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Eternal University, Baru Sahib, Himachal 
Pradesh, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Eternal University, Baru Sahib, Himachal 
Pradesh, India. sainikulvinder@gmail.com.
(4)School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India. 
ranjanaa@mail.jnu.ac.in.

In the last two decades, numerous innovative advances, strategies and protocols 
have been developed and optimized to improve the quality and quantity of soluble 
recombinant protein production in E. coli. One of the major challenges being the 
coelution of chaperone proteins along with desired recombinant protein of 
interest. The removal of chaperones is important for protein yield, structural 
determination, optimal activity, and desired function of the recombinant 
protein. In this chapter, we outline various strategies for removal of chaperone 
contaminants from oligomeric proteins, with the ultimate objective of 
ameliorating the quality and proper folding of recombinant proteins. We have 
discussed in detail the purification and expression of full-length protein, GNE 
(UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/ N-acetylmannosamine kinase), as a case 
study for chaperone removal.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_20
PMID: 35089567


371. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2002 Jul;68(7):3287-92. doi: 
10.1128/AEM.68.7.3287-3292.2002.

Process and metabolic strategies for improved production of Escherichia 
coli-derived 6-deoxyerythronolide B.

Pfeifer B(1), Hu Z, Licari P, Khosla C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 
94305-5025, USA.

Recently, the feasibility of using Escherichia coli for the heterologous 
biosynthesis of complex polyketides has been demonstrated. In this report, the 
development of a robust high-cell-density fed-batch procedure for the efficient 
production of complex polyketides is described. The effects of various 
physiological conditions on the productivity and titers of 6-deoxyerythronolide 
B (6dEB; the macrocyclic core of the antibiotic erythromycin) in recombinant 
cultures of E. coli were studied in shake flask cultures. The resulting data 
were used as a foundation to develop a high-cell-density fermentation procedure 
by building upon procedures reported earlier for recombinant protein production 
in E. coli. The fermentation strategy employed consistently produced 
approximately 100 mg of 6dEB per liter, whereas shake flask conditions generated 
between 1 and 10 mg per liter. The utility of an accessory thioesterase (TEII 
from Saccharopolyspora erythraea) for enhancing the productivity of 6dEB in E. 
coli was also demonstrated (increasing the final titer of 6dEB to 180 mg per 
liter). In addition to reinforcing the potential for using E. coli as a 
heterologous host for wild-type- and engineered-polyketide biosynthesis, the 
procedures described in this study may be useful for the production of secondary 
metabolites that are difficult to access by other routes.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.68.7.3287-3292.2002
PMCID: PMC126764
PMID: 12089005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Biotechnol. 2007 May 1;129(3):481-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2007.01.013. Epub 
2007 Jan 30.

Development of a fed-batch process for the production of the cytochrome P450 
monooxygenase CYP102A1 from Bacillus megaterium in E. coli.

Pflug S(1), Richter SM, Urlacher VB.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Technical Biochemistry, University of Stuttgart, Allmandring 31, 
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

A fed-batch process utilizing a pET-based expression system (pET28a+ derivative) 
and E. coli BL21(DE3) as production strain for the heterologous expression of 
recombinant cytochrome P450 monooxygenase CYP102A1 from Bacillus megaterium was 
developed. In a first step the expression was optimized during a series of flask 
experiments testing several parameters for their influence on the expression 
level, activity and solubility of the recombinant protein. The optimal process 
parameters found in the flask experiments were transferred to a cultivation 
process in a 5l (operating volume) bioreactor with a special focus on the 
feeding strategy and the aeration during expression. Glycerol feeding proved to 
be superior over glucose as carbon source since the formation of larger amounts 
of acetate was prevented. Expression levels exceeding 12,500nmoll(-1), 
corresponding to approximately 1.5gl(-1) of product in culture medium ( 
approximately 11% of CDW) could be demonstrated. The P450 enzyme showed high 
activity and high solubility. The findings now can be transferred to other 
enzyme variants and different P450 monooxygenases to increase production of 
recombinant proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2007.01.013
PMID: 17346843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Mar;26(3):246-9.

[Expression, purification, antibody preparation and identification of tumor 
protein translationally-controlled 1 (TPT1)].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao YF(1), Li HF, Tang SM, Wang M, Wu HD, Liu M, Li X, Tang H.

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Life Science Research Center, Basic Medical School, Tianjin Medical 
University, Tianjin, China.

AIM: To express and purify the fusion protein of TPT1 (tumor protein 
translationally-controlled 1) in prokaryocytes and to prepare rabbit anti-TPT1 
antibody.
METHODS: The expression vector pRSETA(2)-TPT1 was reconstructed and transformed 
into BL21 (DE3). TPT1 fusion protein was induced by IPTG and the TPT1 fusion 
protein purified by Ni-NTA His Bind resin was used to immunize the rabbit. The 
titer of the polyclonal antibody was detected by ELISA and its specificity was 
analyzed by Western blot and IF (immunofluorescence).
RESULTS: The TPT1 fusion protein was highly expressed in E.coli and specific 
polyclonal antibody was obtained after the immunization.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant prokaryotic expression vector pRSETA(2)-TPT1 is 
successfully constructed and high expression of TPT1 is induced in E.coli, which 
may lay the basis for further study of the development and treatment of tumors 
and other diseases.

PMID: 20230689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Di Yi Jun Yi Da Xue Xue Bao. 2005 May;25(5):528-30, 544.

[Soluble expression and characterization of the immunoreactive multiepitope 
antigen of Toxoplasma gondii in E.coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang PL(1), Chen XG, Wang YZ, Li H, Zhou XH, Wu K, Yan H.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Animal Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou 510515, China. plyang927@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To obtain soluble expression product of immunoreactive recombinant 
multiepitope antigen of Toxoplasma gondii from E.coli.
METHODS: The gene encoding the multiple epitopes (MEG) of Toxoplasma gondii was 
amplified by PCR from the original plasmid containing MEG gene and cloned into 
the prokaryotic soluble expression vector pET32a. After identification by enzyme 
digestion and sequencing, the positive recombinant plasmid pET32a-MEG was 
transformed into BL21(DE3), which was induced with IPTG for expression of the 
target antigen. The relative molecular mass, solubility and antigenicity of the 
expression products were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting.
RESULTS: The recombinant expression plasmid pET32a-MEG was successfully 
constructed and the highly efficient expression of the antigen was achieved 
after IPTG induction of E.coli. Improvement of the induction condition increased 
the expression product which accounted for about 28% of the total bacterial 
protein. The target protein, with good solubility and a relative molecular mass 
of about 31 000, was purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography 
(Ni-NTA resin) and could be well recognized by mouse and rabbit antisera derived 
by infection of the animals with Toxoplasma gondii B36 and RH, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant multiepitope antigen has good antigenicity and 
potential value in diagnosis and vaccine development of toxoplasmosis.

PMID: 15897125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Dec;80(2):194-202. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.08.010. Epub 
2011 Aug 28.

A novel chimeric MOMP antigen expressed in Escherichia coli, Arabidopsis 
thaliana, and Daucus carota as a potential Chlamydia trachomatis vaccine 
candidate.

Kalbina I(1), Wallin A, Lindh I, Engström P, Andersson S, Strid K.

Author information:
(1)Örebro Life Science Center, Örebro University, SE-70182 Örebro, Sweden.

The major outer membrane protein (MOMP) of Chlamydia trachomatis is a highly 
antigenic and hydrophobic transmembrane protein. Our attempts to express the 
full-length protein in a soluble form in Escherichia coli and in transgenic 
plants failed. A chimeric gene construct of C. trachomatis serovar E MOMP was 
designed in order to increase solubility of the MOMP protein but with retained 
antigenicity. The designed construct was successfully expressed in E. coli, in 
Arabidopsis thaliana, and in Daucus carota. The chimeric MOMP expressed in and 
purified from E. coli was used as antigen for production of antibodies in 
rabbits. The anti-chimeric MOMP antibodies recognized the corresponding protein 
in both E. coli and in transgenic plants, as well as in inactivated C. 
trachomatis elementary bodies. Transgenic Arabidopsis and carrots were 
characterized for the number of MOMP chimeric genetic inserts and for protein 
expression. Stable integration of the transgene and the corresponding protein 
expression were demonstrated in Arabidopsis plants over at least six 
generations. Transgenic carrots showed a high level of expression of the 
chimeric MOMP - up to 3% of TSP.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.08.010
PMID: 21903168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Protein J. 2022 Feb 4. doi: 10.1007/s10930-022-10043-y. Online ahead of print.

Rifampicin Increases Expression of Plant Codon-Optimized Bacillus thuringiensis 
δ-Endotoxin Genes in Escherichia coli.

Singh VK(1)(2), Nain V(3), Phanindra MLV(1), Gothandapani S(1), Chhapekar SS(1), 
Sreevathsa R(1), Sambasiva Rao KRS(4), Kumar PA(5), Kumar A(6).

Author information:
(1)ICAR-National Research Centre On Plant Biotechnology, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology, Raipur, India.
(3)School of Biotechnology, Gautam Buddha University, Greater Noida, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Acharya Nagarjuna University, Guntur, India.
(5)ICAR-Indian Institute of Rice Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, India. 
polumetla@hotmail.com.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology, Raipur, India. 
drawanishkr@gmail.com.

Transgenic crops expressing Cry δ-endotoxins of Bacillus thuringiensis for 
insect resistance have been commercialized worldwide with increased crop 
productivity and spectacular socioeconomic gains. To attain the enhanced level 
of protein expression, the cry genes have to be extensively modified for RNA 
stability and translation efficiency in the plant systems. However, such 
modifications in nucleotide sequences make it difficult to express the cry genes 
in Escherichia coli because of the presence of E. coli rare codons. Induction of 
gene expression through the T7 promoter/lac operator system results in high 
levels of transcription but limits the availability of activated tRNA 
corresponding to rare codons that leads to translation stalling at ribosomes. In 
the present study, an Isopropyl ß-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)/rifampicin 
combination-based approach was adopted to induce transcription of cry genes 
through T7 promoter/lac operator while simultaneously inhibiting the 
transcription of host genes through rifampicin. The results show that the 
IPTG/rifampicin combination leads to high-level expression of four plant 
codon-optimized cry genes (cry2Aa, cry1F, cry1Ac, and cry1AcF). Northern blot 
analysis of the cry gene expressing E. coli samples showed that the RNA 
expression level in the IPTG-induced samples was higher as compared to that in 
the IPTG/rifampicin-induced samples. Diet overlay insect bioassay of 
IPTG/rifampicin-induced Cry toxins with Helicoverpa armigera larvae showed 
bioactivity (measured as LC50) similar to the previous studies. The experiment 
has proved that recombinant synthetic gene (plant codon-optimized gene) with the 
combination of Rifampicin which inhibits DNA-dependent bacterial RNA polymerase 
and reduces the excessive baggage of translational machinery of the bacterial 
cell triggers the production of synthetic protein. Purification of protein using 
high pH buffer increases the solubility of the protein. Further, LC50 analysis 
shows no reduction of protein activity leads to protein stability. Further, 
purified cry toxin protein can be used for crop protection against pests and a 
purified form of the synthetic protein can be used for antibody production and 
perform the immunoassay for the identification of the transgenic plant. The 
crystallographic structure of synthetic protein could be used for interaction 
study with another insect to see insecticidal activity.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-022-10043-y
PMID: 35119603


377. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Jan;23(1):21-4.

[Construction and prokaryotic expression of recombinant gene EGFRvIII HBcAg and 
immunogenicity analysis of the fusion protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Duan XY(1), Wang JS, Guo YM, Han JL, Wang QY, Yang GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, China. duanxy@mail.xjtu.edu.cn

AIM: To construct recombinant prokaryotic expression plasmid pET28a(+)/c-PEP-3-c 
and evaluate the immunogenicity of the fusion protein.
METHODS: cDNA fragment encoding PEP-3 was obtained from pGEM-T Easy/PEP-3 and 
inserted into recombinant plasmid pGEMEX/HBcAg. Then it was subcloned in 
prokaryotic expression vector and transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3). The fusion 
protein was expressed by inducing IPTG and purified by Ni(2+)-NTA affinity 
chromatography. BALB/c mice were immunized with fusion protein and the antibody 
titre was determined by indirect ELISA.
RESULTS: The recombinant gene was confirmed to be correct by restriction enzyme 
digestion and DNA sequencing. After prokaryotic expression, fusion protein 
existed in sediment and accounted for 56% of all bacterial lysate. The purified 
product accounted for 92% of all protein and its concentration was 8 g/L. The 
antibody titre in blood serum reached 1:16 000 after the fourth immunization and 
reached 1:2.56x10(5) after the sixth immunization. The titre of anti-PEP-3 
antibody reached 1:1.28x10(5) and the titre of anti-HBcAg antibody was less than 
1:4x10(3).
CONCLUSION: Fusion gene PEP-3-HBcAg is highly expressed in E.coli BL21. The 
expressed fusion protein can induce neutralizing antibody with high titer and 
specificity, which lays a foundation for the study of genetically engineering 
vaccine for malignant tumors with the high expression of EGFRvIII.

PMID: 17210099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2007 Apr 15;96(6):1101-6. doi: 10.1002/bit.21218.

The conformational quality of insoluble recombinant proteins is enhanced at low 
growth temperatures.

Vera A(1), González-Montalbán N, Arís A, Villaverde A.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Departament de Genètica i de 
Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193 Barcelona, 
Spain.

Protein aggregation is a major bottleneck during the bacterial production of 
recombinant proteins. In general, the induction of gene expression at 
sub-optimal growth temperatures improves the solubility of aggregation-prone 
polypeptides and minimizes inclusion body (IB) formation. However, the effect of 
low temperatures on the quality of the recombinant protein, especially within 
the insoluble cell fraction, has been hardly ever explored. In this work, we 
have examined the conformational status of a recombinant GFP protein when 
produced in Escherichia coli below 37 degrees C. As expected, the fraction of 
aggregated protein largely decreased at lower temperatures, while the 
conformational quality of both soluble and aggregated GFP, as reflected by its 
specific fluorescence emission, progressively improved. This observation 
indicates that physicochemical conditions governing protein folding affect 
concurrently the quality of the soluble and the aggregated forms of a 
misfolding-prone protein, and that protein misfolding and aggregation are 
clearly not coincident events.

(c) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.21218
PMID: 17013944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Biotechnol Prog. 2006 Mar-Apr;22(2):382-6. doi: 10.1021/bp0502680.

High-level expression of a soluble functional antimicrobial peptide, human 
beta-defensin 2, in Escherichia coli.

Xu Z(1), Peng L, Zhong Z, Fang X, Cen P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Department of Chemical and Biochemical 
Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China. znxu@zju.edu.cn

In this work, taking human beta-defensin-2 (HBD2) as a demonstrative molecule, 
the strategies for high efficient production of functional human beta-defensins 
in E. coli were studied. Fusion mature HBD2 (TrxA-mHBD2) showed high solubility 
and productivity without the need for lowering the cultivation temperature. The 
solubility of target fusion protein could attain 81.3% even at 37 degrees C with 
a volumetric productivity as high as 235 mg/L in a rich medium MBL at the same 
temperature and reached 346 mg/L at 28 degrees C. The His-Tag in the fusion 
protein enabled the application of affinity chromatography separation to obtain 
high purity of the overexpressed recombinant fusion protein. After digestion by 
enterokinase, purification via cationic exchange chromatography, and desalting 
by ultrafiltration, mature HBD2 product was obtained with a purity of 95% in an 
overall recovery of 29.2%. The antimicrobial activity of the recombinant mature 
HBD2 and the influence factors were tested using E. coli K12D31 as a sensitive 
strain.

DOI: 10.1021/bp0502680
PMID: 16599550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Biosci Bioeng. 2008 Oct;106(4):387-92. doi: 10.1263/jbb.106.387.

Large-scale production of major house dust mite allergen der f 2 mutant 
(C8/119S) in Escherichia coli.

Koyanagi S(1), Maeda T, Murakami T, Kawatsu K, Sugawara K, Miyatsu Y, Mizokami 
H.

Author information:
(1)Applied Research Department, The Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute 
(Kaketsuken), 1314-1 Kyokushikawabe, Kikuchi, Kumamoto 869-1298, Japan. 
koyanagi@kaketsuken.or.jp

Hyposensitization, in which causative antigens of allergic diseases are 
injected, is the sole means of a radical cure for allergic diseases. Since the 
therapeutic allergens currently used are naturally extracted, producing 
preparations with a stable titer from such extracts is extremely difficult. 
There are several reports on the expression of recombinant mite allergens in 
Escherichia coli using inducers. The use of an inducer for industrial production 
will lead to high costs and, for therapeutic use, it must be removed in the 
purification process. C8/119S is a mutant of Der f 2, a major house dust mite 
allergen. The C8/119S gene was integrated downstream of the trp promoter to 
produce the expression plasmid (pWU11-C8/119S). Then, this expression plasmid 
was used to transform E. coli strain HB101 (pWU11-C8/119S/HB101). A recombinant 
E. coli pWU11-C8/119S/HB101 did not express C8/119S in a low-temperature culture 
(32 degrees C), but C8/119S was induced to a high level of expression in a 
high-temperature culture (37 degrees C). pWU11-C8/119S/HB101 proliferated when 
expression was induced by high temperature and an approximately 3-fold greater 
proliferation was obtained compared with the use of an inducer in a large-scale 
culture. The C8/119S protein was expressed as inclusion bodies and obtained by 
refolding and chromatography purifications. The immunological properties of 
C8/119S were assessed by western blotting. Western blotting demonstrated that 
purified C8/119S reacted with a monoclonal anti-Der f 2 antibody (18G8). 
pWU11-C8/119S/HB101 can be used as an easy, low cost expression system on a 
large scale. It is also advantageous for industrial production in that the 
addition of an inducer is not required to achieve expression of the mite 
allergen.

DOI: 10.1263/jbb.106.387
PMID: 19000616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Biotechnol. 2013 Dec;168(4):607-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2013.08.024. Epub 
2013 Aug 27.

High-level expression of glutaryl-7-aminocephalosporanic acid acylase from 
Pseudomonas diminuta NK703 in Escherichia coli by combined optimization 
strategies.

Ma X(1), Su E, Zhu Y, Deng S, Wei D.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, 
PR China.

In this work, a glutaryl-7-aminocephalosporanic acid acylase (GLA) coding gene 
was cloned from Pseudomonas diminuta NK703 which was screened from oilfield. The 
concerted effects of the expression system, inducing condition and culture 
medium on the expression of NK703 GLA in E. coli were firstly investigated. The 
best combination was the recombinant E. coli strain of pET-28a+GLA/BL21(DE3) 
with 2.0% (w/v) lactose inducing in YT medium at 25°C. Then, by optimizing the 
components of culture medium, a synthetic medium with dextrin and a feeding 
medium with glycerol as the carbon sources were developed to further enhance the 
GLA yield and improve the GLA solubility. In the end, the NK703 GLA activity 
increased about 50-fold, reached 14,470 ± 465 U/L, and the GLA productivity and 
the proportion of soluble GLA to the total soluble protein attained 206.0 ± 
9.033 UL(-1)h(-1) and 60.13%, respectively. Scaling up the GLA production in 3.7 
L fermenter under the optimized conditions identified in shake flask, the GLA 
activity also reached 12,406±521U/L, which was the highest report at fermenter 
level.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2013.08.024
PMID: 23994688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Mar Biotechnol (NY). 2008 Nov-Dec;10(6):719-30. doi: 10.1007/s10126-008-9111-z. 
Epub 2008 Jun 13.

Challenges associated with heterologous expression of Flavobacterium 
psychrophilum proteins in Escherichia coli.

Shah DH(1), Cain KD, Wiens GD, Call DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology and Pathology, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA 99164-7040, USA.

A two-parameter statistical model was used to predict the solubility of 96 
putative virulence-associated proteins of Flavobacterium psychrophilum 
(CSF259-93) upon over expression in Escherichia coli. This analysis indicated 
that 88.5% of the F. psychrophilum proteins would be expressed as insoluble 
aggregates (inclusion bodies). These solubility predictions were verified 
experimentally by colony filtration blot for six different F. psychrophilum 
proteins. A comprehensive analysis of codon usage identified over a dozen codons 
that are used frequently in F. psychrophilum, but that are rarely used in E. 
coli. Expression of F. psychrophilum proteins in E. coli was often associated 
with production of minor molecular weight products, presumably because of the 
codon usage bias between these two organisms. Expression of recombinant protein 
in the presence of rare tRNA genes resulted in marginal improvements in the 
expressed products. Consequently, Vibrio parahaemolyticus was developed as an 
alternative expression host because its codon usage is similar to F. 
psychrophilum. A full-length recombinant F. psychrophilum hemolysin was 
successfully expressed and purified from V. parahaemolyticus in soluble form, 
whereas this protein was insoluble upon expression in E. coli. We show that V. 
parahaemolyticus can be used as an alternate heterologous expression system that 
can remedy challenges associated with expression and production of F. 
psychrophilum recombinant proteins.

DOI: 10.1007/s10126-008-9111-z
PMID: 18551344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2019;49(1):48-57. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1508037. 
Epub 2019 Feb 8.

Proteomics investigation of molecular mechanisms affected by EnBase culture 
system in anti-VEGF fab fragment producing E. coli BL21 (DE3).

Azarian B(1), Azimi A(2)(3), Sepehri M(2)(4), Samimi Fam V(2)(5), Rezaie F(2), 
Talebkhan Y(2), Khalaj V(2), Davami F(2).

Author information:
(1)a Protein Chemistry Unit, Biotechnology Research Centre , Pasteur Institute 
of Iran , Tehran , Iran.
(2)b Medical Biotechnology Department , Biotechnology Research Centre, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran , Tehran , Iran.
(3)c Department of Biotechnology , College of Science, University of Tehran , 
Tehran , Iran.
(4)d Department of Molecular and Cellular Sciences, Faculty of Advanced Sciences 
& Technology , Pharmaceutical sciences Branch, Islamic Azad University , Tehran 
, Iran.
(5)e Department of Microbiology , Islamic Azad University Rasht Branch , Rasht , 
Guilan , Iran.

Aggregation of recombinant proteins, a major problem in E. coli expression 
system, is improved by using EnBase culture system based on slow release of 
glucose. In the present study, to understand the intracellular mechanisms 
involved in increased solubility of the target recombinant protein through 
EnBase system, the effect of this system was investigated on E. coli cells 
proteome profile. The proteome profile of E. coli cells cultured in EnBase and 
conventional batch mode was analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The 
proteins with significant expressional changes were identified through 
MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry. In EnBase system, the expressions of carbon 
metabolism-related proteins, sugar transport system-related proteins, and amino 
acids metabolism-related proteins were significantly altered. Furthermore, the 
expression of Thioredoxin 1 as the facilitator of protein folding was 
up-regulated in EnBase system that could be related to the increased solubility 
of recombinant protein. The proteomics analysis of E. coli cells cultured in 
EnBase system revealed that Thioredoxin 1 can be a potential candidate for 
future studies aiming at increased anti-VEGF fab fragment solubility. Studying 
proteomics is a valuable tool for revealing the target proteins that play the 
central role in EnBase culture system for increasing the solubility.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1508037
PMID: 30735089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Vaccines (Basel). 2022 Jan 9;10(1):96. doi: 10.3390/vaccines10010096.

Comparative Immunogenicity of the Recombinant Receptor-Binding Domain of Protein 
S SARS-CoV-2 Obtained in Prokaryotic and Mammalian Expression Systems.

Merkuleva IA(1), Shcherbakov DN(1), Borgoyakova MB(1), Shanshin DV(1), Rudometov 
AP(1), Karpenko LI(1), Belenkaya SV(1), Isaeva AA(1), Nesmeyanova VS(1), 
Kazachinskaia EI(1), Volosnikova EA(1), Esina TI(1), Zaykovskaya AV(1), Pyankov 
OV(1), Borisevich SS(2), Shelemba AA(3), Chikaev AN(4), Ilyichev AA(1).

Author information:
(1)State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology "Vector", 
Rospotrebnadzor, World-Class Genomic Research Center for Biological Safety and 
Technological Independence, Federal Scientific and Technical Program on the 
Development of Genetic Technologies, 630559 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(2)Laboratory of Chemical Physics, Ufa Institute of Chemistry, Ufa Federal 
Research Center, 450078 Ufa, Russia.
(3)Federal Research Center of Fundamental and Translational Medicine, 630060 
Novosibirsk, Russia.
(4)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Siberian Branch of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.

The receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the protein S SARS-CoV-2 is considered to 
be one of the appealing targets for developing a vaccine against COVID-19. The 
choice of an expression system is essential when developing subunit vaccines, as 
it ensures the effective synthesis of the correctly folded target protein, and 
maintains its antigenic and immunogenic properties. Here, we describe the 
production of a recombinant RBD protein using prokaryotic (pRBD) and mammalian 
(mRBD) expression systems, and compare the immunogenicity of prokaryotic and 
mammalian-expressed RBD using a BALB/c mice model. An analysis of the sera from 
mice immunized with both variants of the protein revealed that the mRBD 
expressed in CHO cells provides a significantly stronger humoral immune response 
compared with the RBD expressed in E.coli cells. A specific antibody titer of 
sera from mice immunized with mRBD was ten-fold higher than the sera from the 
mice that received pRBD in ELISA, and about 100-fold higher in a neutralization 
test. The data obtained suggests that mRBD is capable of inducing neutralizing 
antibodies against SARS-CoV-2.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines10010096
PMCID: PMC8779843
PMID: 35062757

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


385. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2406:155-167. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_9.

Introduction of a Hexalysine (6 K) Tag Can Protect from N-Terminal Cleavage and 
Increase Yield of Recombinant Proteins Expressed in the Periplasm of E. coli.

Paraskevopoulou V(#)(1)(2), Alissa M(#)(1), Hage N(1), Falcone FH(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Therapeutics and Formulation Division, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(2)New Modalities and Parenteral Development, Pharmaceutical Technology & 
Development, Operations, AstraZeneca, Macclesfield, UK.
(3)Molecular Therapeutics and Formulation Division, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK. Franco.Falcone@vetmed.uni-giessen.de.
(4)Institute for Parasitology, Justus-Liebig-University of Gießen, Gießen, 
Germany. Franco.Falcone@vetmed.uni-giessen.de.
(#)Contributed equally

Recombinant expression of proteins in the periplasm of E. coli is frequently 
used for proteins containing disulfide bonds that are essential for protein 
folding and activity, as the cytosol of E. coli constitutes a reducing 
environment. The periplasm in contrast is an oxidative environment which 
supports proper protein folding. However, yields can be limited compared with 
cytoplasmic expression, and protocols must be adjusted to avoid overloading the 
periplasmic transportation machinery. Another less-appreciated issue with 
periplasmic expression is the potential generation of unwanted N-terminal 
cleavage products, a persistent issue which we encountered when expressing the 
disulfide bond containing extracellular regions of several Helicobacter pylori 
adhesins (BabA, BabB, BabC, and LabA) in the periplasm of E. coli XL10 GOLD, a 
strain traditionally not used for proteins expression. Here, we describe how 
introducing a C-terminal hexa-lysine (6 K) tag enhanced solubility and protected 
BabA from N-terminal proteolytic degradation (BabA), enabling crystallization 
and subsequent X-ray structural analysis. However. the same strategy had no 
advantageous effect for LabA, which using this protocol could be retrieved from 
the periplasm in relatively high yields (20-40 mg/L).

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_9
PMID: 35089556


386. Protein Expr Purif. 2002 Nov;26(2):218-28. doi: 10.1016/s1046-5928(02)00502-8.

Overexpression of DsbC and DsbG markedly improves soluble and functional 
expression of single-chain Fv antibodies in Escherichia coli.

Zhang Z(1), Li ZH, Wang F, Fang M, Yin CC, Zhou ZY, Lin Q, Huang HL.

Author information:
(1)Group 102, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Academia Sinica, 
Beijing 100101, China.

Single-chain Fv antibodies (scFv), a group of reconstructed molecules with 
several disulfide bonds, are prone to aggregate as inclusion bodies, the 
insoluble species of natural proteins, when expressed in Escherichia coli, 
especially at high level. Recovery of functionally active products from 
inclusion bodies is onerous and ineffective. We have increased the soluble and 
functional scFv yields by fusing either DsbC or DsbG, two E. coli disulfide 
isomerases with general chaperone function, to scFvs. Compared to the totally 
insoluble inclusion bodies of scFvs expressed separately, more than half of each 
fusion protein DsbC-scFv or DsbG-scFv was soluble, according to SDS-PAGE 
analysis. The more effective solubility was obtained when the fused protein 
DsbG-scFv was co-expressed simultaneously with DsbC under the same promoter. 
Under this condition, the soluble portion of DsbG-scFv increased from about 50% 
to 90% measured by scanning SDS-PAGE gel. Co-expression of DsbC can change 
fusion protein CBD-scFv from totally insoluble when expressed in E. coli 
separately to a considerable portion of soluble CBD-scFv. Antigen-binding 
activity assay showed that scFvs retained full affinity to specific antigens. We 
also determined that general molecular chaperones GroEL and GroES had no effects 
on the solubility of scFvs when co-expressed with scFv in E. coli. We propose 
that the correct formation of disulfide bonds in scFvs is the crucial factor 
responsible for solubility of scFvs.

DOI: 10.1016/s1046-5928(02)00502-8
PMID: 12406675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2004 May;20(3):450-5.

[Hepatitis E virus capsid protein production by high cell density culture of 
recombinant Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu RS(1), He ZQ, Li SW, Yang KY, Xian YL, Pang SQ, Zhang J, Li YM, Xia NS.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Cell Biology and Tumor 
Cell Engineering, Xiamen 361005, China.

Production of Hepatitis E Virus capsid protein by high cell density culture in 
recombinant E. coli has been studied in 10L and 30L fermentors. The effects of 
different factors on growth and producing recombinant protein of E. coli have 
been studied by batch culture, such as different media, the ratio of phosphate 
and Magnesium sulfate. Comparison of fermentation performance for recombinant E. 
coli in different fed-methods culture has been investigated by fed-batch 
culture. The effects of inducing at different stages of growth and time of 
inducing on growth and producing recombinant protein, also obtained by fed-batch 
culture. At last, the solubility of inclusion body in different urea 
concentrations also has been obtained by fed-batch culture. The results show 
that the concentration of phosphate and Magnesium sulfate in the optimal media 
is 80mmol/L and 20mmol/L in batch culture respectively, that induction with 
1.0mmol/L IPTG at mid log phase (about 45 OD at 600nm) is suitable for growth 
and recombinant protein expression, the cells were approaching stationary growth 
phase and the maximum cell OD at 600nm of 80 was achieved in 5h of fed-batch 
culture, and the expression level is 29.74%. The results also indicate that the 
solubility of inclusion body in 4mol/L urea solution induced at 37 degrees C 
reaches 14mg/mL, over 80% inclusion body was resolved. The culture process 
achieved in 10L fermentor could be successfully scaled up to 30L fenmentor with 
good reproducibility.

PMID: 15971623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Mar;46(1):122-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.07.028. Epub 
2005 Aug 24.

Enhanced soluble protein expression using two new fusion tags.

Chatterjee DK(1), Esposito D.

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression Laboratory, SAIC-Frederick, Inc., National Cancer 
Institute at Frederick, 1050 Boyles Street, Building 327 Frederick, MD 21702, 
USA. chatterjee@ncifcrf.gov

Production of soluble recombinant proteins is vital for structure-function 
analysis and therapeutic applications. Unfortunately, when expressed in a 
heterologous host, such as Escherichia coli, most proteins are expressed as 
insoluble aggregates. Two new fusion partners have been identified to address 
these solubility problems. One of the tags was derived from a bacteriophage T7 
protein kinase and the other one from a small E. coli chaperone, Skp. We have 
expressed a panel of insoluble human proteins including Hif1alpha, IL13, and 
folliculin as fusion proteins using these tags. Most of these fusion proteins 
were able to be expressed in a soluble form and could be purified by virtue of a 
Strep-tag II installed at the amino-terminal end of the fusion partners. In 
addition, we show that some of these proteins remained soluble after removal of 
the fusion tags by a site-specific protease. The results with these tags compare 
favorably to results with the most commonly used solubility tags described in 
the literature. Therefore, these two new fusion tags have the potential to 
express soluble proteins when fused with many recalcitrant proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.07.028
PMID: 16146696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Feb;24(2):150-2.

[Fusion expression of human beta defensin 4 in Escherichia coli and preparation 
of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Cao YH(1), Zhang GY, Zhang GC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China. caoyh70@126.com

AIM: To construct the prokaryotic fusion expression vector of human beta 
defensin 4 (HBD4), and to express GST-HBD4 fusion protein in Escherichia coli 
(E.coli) and prepare polyclonal antibody of GST-HBD4.
METHODS: The gene encoding mature peptide of HBD4 (mHBD4) was amplified by PCR 
from cloning vector PMD18-T/HBD4 which contained the full-length HBD4 cDNA and 
then cloned into prokaryotic expression vector PGEX-4T-2 to construct 
PGEX-4T-2/mHBD4. GST-HBD4 expression was induced by IPTG. The antiserum was 
prepared by immunizing rabbit with GST-HBD4.The titer and specificity of the 
antibody were detected by ELISA and Western blot, respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant expression vector PGEX-4T-2/mHBD4 was successfully 
constructed. After being induced by IPTG, The fusion protein with relative 
molecular mass of 32 000 was successfully expressed in E.coli and partly 
expressed in the soluble form in supernatant. The rabbit antibody against 
GST-HBD4 was obtained. The ELISA titer of antiserum against GST-HBD4 was about 
1:128 000. Western blot analysis showed that the antiserum could bind to the 
expressed GST-HBD4 specifically.
CONCLUSION: The rabbit antibody against GST-HBD4 has been successfully prepared, 
which lays the foundation for further studying the structure and function of 
HBD4.

PMID: 18237532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Protein Pept Lett. 2022 Feb 9. doi: 10.2174/0929866529666220209155738. Online 
ahead of print.

Soluble Diphtheria Toxin Variant, CRM 197 Was Obtained in Escherichia coli at 
High Productivity Using SUMO Fusion and an Adjusted Expression Strategy.

Tarahomjoo S(1), Bandehpour M(2), Aghaebrahimian M(1), Ahangaran S(1).

Author information:
(1)Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education 
and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj 31975/148, Iran.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

CRM197, a non-toxic diphtheria toxin variant, is widely used as a polysaccharide 
carrier in a variety of conjugate vaccines and also exhibits antitumor activity. 
CRM197 commercial production is limited due to the low yield of Corynebacterium 
diphtheriae C7 (197) tox-. Developing an efficient method for recombinant CRM197 
production reduces production costs and is critical for expanding the 
application coverage of related medical products and basic research. Escherichia 
coli is a frequently used host for heterologous protein synthesis. However, the 
primary limitation of this system is the inclusion of body formation and the low 
yield of active protein recovery. <P> Objective: As a result, we attempted to 
produce CRM197 in the soluble form in E. coli using a small ubiquitin-related 
modifier (SUMO) tag fusion and an expression strategy optimized for protein 
production. <P> Methods: CRM197 was expressed intracellularly in E. coli BL21 
(DE3) with its N-terminus fused to a SUMO tag preceded by a histidine tag 
(HSCRM197). To improve the solubility of HSCRM197 in E. coli, a response surface 
method (RSM) experimental design was used based on three factors: expression 
temperature, inducer concentration, and sorbitol inclusion in the culture 
medium. Metal affinity chromatography was used to purify HSCRM197, and the SUMO 
tag was removed using the SUMO protease's catalytic domain. After adsorbing the 
SUMO tag on a Ni-NTA column, CRM197 was obtained. DNA degradation activity was 
determined for both HSCRM197 and CRM197. <P> Results: When HSCRM197 was 
expressed in E. coli under common expression conditions (37 ºC, 1000 µM 
inducer), 15.4% of the protein was found in the cellular soluble fraction. 
However, when the RSM-derived expression conditions were used (30 ºC, 510 µM 
inducer, and 200 mM sorbitol), the obtained HSCRM197 was almost completely 
soluble (96.5% solubility), and the system productivity was 32.67 µg ml-1 h-1. 
HSCRM197 and CRM197 both exhibited nuclease activity. However, the activity of 
CRM197 was greater than that of HSCRM197. <P> Conclusion: These findings 
established the utility of the method developed in this study to produce CRM197 
for medical applications.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866529666220209155738
PMID: 35139782


391. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2006 Sep;72(3):471-9. doi: 10.1007/s00253-005-0287-0. 
Epub 2006 Jan 20.

High-level production of bioactive human beta-defensin-4 in Escherichia coli by 
soluble fusion expression.

Xu Z(1), Zhong Z, Huang L, Peng L, Wang F, Cen P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Department of Chemical Engineering and 
Bioengineering, Zhejiang University (Yuquan campus), Hangzhou, 310027 Zhejiang, 
People's Republic of China. znxu@zju.edu.cn

Human beta-defensin-4 (hBD4) is a cationic 50-amino acid antimicrobial peptide 
with three conserved cysteine disulfide bonds. It exhibits a broad antimicrobial 
spectrum. This study describes the synthesis of hBD4 gene, the heterologous 
fusion expression of the peptide in Escherichia coli, and the bioactive assay of 
released hBD4. A PCR-based gene SOEing (splicing by overlap extension) synthesis 
method was used in the synthesis of the hBD4 gene with optimized codons. By 
constructing the expression plasmid (pET32-smhBD4), high concentration of 
soluble hBD4 fusion protein (1.9 g/l) can be obtained in E. coli. Further 
optimization studies showed that the expression system was very efficient to 
produce soluble target protein, and the solubility of the target protein could 
attain more than 99% even when the culture temperature was as high as 37 degrees 
C. The highest productivity (2.68 g/l) of the hBD4 fusion protein was achieved 
by cultivating the E. coli (pET32-smhBD4) in MBL medium at 34 degrees C, 
inducing the culture at the mid-exponential phase with 0.4-mM isopropyl 
beta-D-galactopyranoside (IPTG), and collecting the broth after 6-h expression. 
The soluble target protein accounted for 64.6% of the total soluble proteins, 
and the mature hBD4 expression level was stoichiometrically estimated to be 
0.689 g/l. This fusion protein was then purified and cleaved to get the mature 
hBD4 peptide that showed antimicrobial activity against E. coli and Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-005-0287-0
PMID: 16437202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. ACS Synth Biol. 2022 Mar 10. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00599. Online ahead of 
print.

[NiFe] Hydrogenase Accessory Proteins HypB-HypC Accelerate Proton Conversion to 
Enhance the Acid Resistance and d-Lactic Acid Production of Escherichia coli.

Yang J(1)(2), Peng Z(1)(2), Zhu Q(1)(2), Zhang J(1)(2), Du G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)Science Center for Future Foods, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.

Escherichia coli is a major industrial producer of d-lactic acid due to its 
well-known advantages, such as short cycle times and low demand. However, acid 
sensitivity limits production capacity and increases costs. Enhancing the 
resistance of E. coli to acid stress is essential for improving the cell 
performance and production value. Here, we propose a feasible strategy to 
increase the acid tolerance of cells by strengthening intracellular proton 
conversion. The transcriptome test of the acid-tolerant adaptive evolution 
strain identified the hydrogenase accessory proteins HypB and HypC as a class of 
acid-tolerant factors that can assist the hydrogenase in catalyzing the 
reduction of protons to produce hydrogen. Strengthening the expression of HypB 
and HypC can increase the cell survival rate by 336.3 times during the lethal 
stress of d-lactate. In addition, HypB and HypC will assist d-lactate-producing 
strains to show higher sustainable productivity in an acidic fermentation 
environment, and d-lactate titer will increase by 113.6%. In order to further 
improve the expression system of the hydrogenase accessory protein, the 
introduction of a strong acid stress-driven promoter tdcAp can reduce the demand 
for neutralizer delivery in the fermentation process by about 26.7% while 
maintaining the maximum intensity of d-lactic acid production. Therefore, this 
research developed a method to improve the acid resistance of E. coli cells and 
reduce the cost of organic acid production by transforming protons.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00599
PMID: 35271275


393. PLoS One. 2016 May 27;11(5):e0156296. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156296. 
eCollection 2016.

Prokaryotic Soluble Overexpression and Purification of Human VEGF165 by Fusion 
to a Maltose Binding Protein Tag.

Nguyen MT(1), Krupa M(1), Koo BK(1), Song JA(1), Vu TT(1), Do BH(1), Nguyen 
AN(1), Seo T(1), Yoo J(1), Jeong B(1), Jin J(2), Lee KJ(3), Oh HB(4), Choe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul 05505, Korea.
(2)Osong Medical Innovation Foundation, New Drug Development Center, Division of 
Drug Screening and Evaluation, Chungbuk, 363-951, Korea.
(3)Department of Convergence Medicine, Asan Institute for Life Sciences, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, 05505, 
Korea.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine 
and Asan Medical Center, Seoul 05505, Korea.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2017 Jan 17;12 (1):e0170602.

Human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a key regulator of 
angiogenesis and plays a central role in the process of tumor growth and 
metastatic dissemination. Escherichia coli is one of the most common expression 
systems used for the production of recombinant proteins; however, expression of 
human VEGF in E. coli has proven difficult because the E. coli-expressed VEGF 
tends to be misfolded and forms inclusion bodies, resulting in poor solubility. 
In this study, we successfully produced semi-preparative amounts of soluble 
bioactive human VEGF165 (hVEGF). We created seven N-terminal fusion tag 
constructs with hexahistidine (His6), thioredoxin (Trx), glutathione 
S-transferase (GST), maltose-binding protein (MBP), N-utilization substance 
protein A (NusA), human protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), and the b'a' domain 
of PDI (PDIb'a'), and tested each construct for soluble overexpression in E. 
coli. We found that at 18°C, 92.8% of the MBP-tagged hVEGF to be soluble and 
that this tag significantly increased the protein's solubility. We successfully 
purified 0.8 mg of pure hVEGF per 500 mL cell culture. The purified hVEGF is 
stable after tag cleavage, contains very low levels of endotoxin, and is 97.6% 
pure. Using an Flk1+ mesodermal precursor cell (MPC) differentiation assay, we 
show that the purified hVEGF is not only bioactive but has similar bioactivity 
to hVEGF produced in mammalian cells. Previous reports on producing hVEGF in E. 
coli have all been based on refolding of the protein from inclusion bodies. To 
our knowledge, this is the first report on successfully expressing and purifying 
soluble hVEGF in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156296
PMCID: PMC4883780
PMID: 27231876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have applied 
for a Korean patent on the method of producing hVEGF in E. coli with the 
application number of ‘10-2015-0147368’. There are no other patents, products in 
development, or marketed products to declare. This does not alter the authors’ 
adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


394. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2013 Jul;29(7):974-85.

[Expression of human retinol-binding protein 4 in insect baculovirus system and 
preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Ren Y(1), Chen D, Guo Y, Shi H, Liu J, Ban J, Liu Y, Wu X, Wang W, Cheng H, Li 
D, Liu Y, Wang L.

Author information:
(1)ABZYMO Bioscience, Beijing 100176, China.

To prepare recombinant human retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) by using the 
baculovirus expression system and to detect its immunogenicity, the fusion DNA 
fragment of secretory signal peptide SS64 and human RBP4 gene was subcloned into 
a baculovirus transfer vector pFastBac-dual(pFBd), and the corresponding 
recombinant transfer plasmid was transformed into E. coli strain DH10bac, after 
transposition recombinant shuttle bacmid was screened out. The logarithmic phase 
Sf9 cells were transfected with the recombinant bacmid and then the recombinant 
baculovirus containing hRBP4 expression box were generated. After amplification 
of recombinant baculovirus, the recombinant baculovirus seeds were obtained. To 
express human RBP4, logarithmic phase Sf9 cells were infected with the virus 
seeds and SDS-PAGE and Western blotting were used to detect and identify the 
expression. Finally, to prepare a batch of RBP4 protein, logarithmic phase Sf9 
cells in suspension culture were infected with recombinant baculovirus seeds and 
the supernatant was harvested after 120 hours post-infection for purification. 
Finally for preparation of polyclonal antibody and evaluation of immunogenicity, 
the recombinant hRBP4 from insect cells and from E. coli were immunized rabbits. 
Restriction enzyme digestion and sequencing confirmed that the recombinant 
baculovirus transfer plasmid was constructed correctly, and subsequently 
recombinant RBP4-bacmid was generated successfully. SDS-PAGE and Western 
blotting analysis suggested that human RBP4 protein was highly expressed in Sf9 
cells with the molecular weight of approximately 23 kDa. The recombinant RBP4 
protein could be secreted into the medium efficiently, and the expression level 
was calculated amount of 100 mg/L. Finally the rabbit antiserum was harvested 
after recombinant RBP4 immunization, therein the titer of antiserum against 
baculovirus recombinant RBP4 is 1:100 000 whereas the titer of antiserum against 
E. coli recombinant RBP4 is only 1:10 000. Overall, human RBP4 was high 
efficiently expressed successfully with good antigenicity in baculovirus system, 
and high affinity antiserum was obtained. A solid foundation was laid for the 
next step of the preparation of human serum RBP4 detection kit.

PMID: 24195364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2003 Oct 5;84(1):114-20. doi: 10.1002/bit.10756.

Production of recombinant proteins using multiple-copy gene integration in 
high-cell-density fermentations of Ralstonia eutropha.

Srinivasan S(1), Barnard GC, Gerngross TU.

Author information:
(1)Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, 8000 Cummings Hall, Hanover, 
New Hampshire 03755, USA.

We have previously reported the development of a novel protein expression system 
based on Ralstonia eutropha. In this study we report on the influence of gene 
copynumber on recombinant protein expression in R. eutropha. We compare 
recombinant gene stability and expression levels of chromosomal integration with 
a plasmid-based expression system. Single, double, and triple copies of a gene 
encoding organophosphohydrolase (OPH), an enzyme prone to inclusion-body 
formation in E. coli, were integrated into the R. eutropha chromosome. A linear 
increase between the concentration of soluble, active OPH and gene copynumber 
was found. Using a triple-copy integrant, we were able to produce approximately 
4.3 g/L of OPH in a high-cell-density fermentation. This represents the highest 
titer reported to date for this enzyme, and is approximately 30 times greater 
than expression levels reported in E. coli.

Copyright 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Biotechnol Bioeng 84: 114-120, 2003.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.10756
PMID: 12910550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Mar;32(3):393-6.

[Preparation of rabbit polyclonal antibody against mouse ADAMTS2].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu J(1), Miao S(1), Wang L(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Department of Biochemistry 
and Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100005, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Department of Biochemistry 
and Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100005, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
wang.linfang@imicams.ac.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain recombinant mouse collagenase ADAMTS2 (ADAM 
metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif, 2) C terminal (1109-1213), 
and prepare the corresponding rabbit anti-ADAMTS2 polyclonal antibodies.
METHODS: The recombinant expression plasmid pGEX-6p-1-ADAMTS2 (1109-1213) was 
transformed into E.coli. The target protein was induced by IPTG and identified 
by mass spectrometry following affinity purification. The expressed and purified 
ADAMTS2 (1109-1213) protein was used to immunize New Zealand rabbits to prepare 
anti-ADAMTS2 polyclonal antibodies. The antibody titers were detected by ELISA 
and the antibody specificity by Western blotting.
RESULTS: The protein ADAMTS2 (1109-1213) was expressed in E.coli after IPTG 
induction, and with the purified protein, we prepared antiserum in the immunized 
rabbits. The titer of the antiserum reached over 1:160 000. The antiserum showed 
a good specificity.
CONCLUSION: The high titer and specific rabbit anti-ADAMTS2 antibody has been 
prepared successfully.

PMID: 26927563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2012 Apr;25(4):179-87. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzs002. Epub 
2012 Feb 14.

The amino acid sequences in the C-terminal region of glucose-1-phosphate 
thymidylyltransferases determine their soluble expression in Escherichia coli.

Singh B(1), Lee CB, Park JW, Sohng JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Institute of Biomolecule 
Reconstruction, SunMoon University, #100, Kalsan-ri, Tangjeong-myeon, Asansi, 
Chungnam 336-708, Korea.

Two similar genes, dnmL and rmbA in Streptomyces peucetius, which encode for 
glucose-1-phosphate (G-1-P) thymidylyltransferases were expressed in Escherichia 
coli under similar conditions. While RmbA was expressed in soluble form, DnmL 
was found as insoluble aggregates in inclusion bodies. The difference in 
expression of these similar proteins led to investigate into the amino acid 
sequences of these proteins by sequence alignment, hydrophobicity scale and 
homology modeling. These analyses showed that the two proteins are different 
only in the C-terminal sequences. Deletion of C-terminal sequence of DnmL 
increased the expression level of truncated DnmL. Substitution of C-terminal 
sequence of DnmL with RmbA also expressed the recombinant protein in soluble 
form. Finally, mutation of six amino acids in DnmL rendered the protein 
expressed in soluble form. These results suggested that the soluble expression 
of the thymidylyltransferases lies in the C-terminal sequences. In conclusion, 
these methods of protein engineering will be a rational tool for enhancing 
solubility of proteins expressed in E.coli.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzs002
PMID: 22334758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Feb 1;23(3):1703. doi: 10.3390/ijms23031703.

A Multi-Disulfide Receptor-Binding Domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein 
Expressed in E. coli Using a SEP-Tag Produces Antisera Interacting with the 
Mammalian Cell Expressed Spike (S1) Protein.

Brindha S(1), Kuroda Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Faculty of Engineering, Tokyo 
University of Agriculture and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo 
184-8588, Japan.

An Escherichia coli (E. coli) production of the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of 
the SARS-CoV-2 (isolate Wuhan-Hu-1) spike protein would significantly accelerate 
the search for anti-COVID-19 therapeutics because of its versatility and low 
cost. However, RBD contains four disulfide bonds and its expression in E. coli 
is limited by the formation of aberrant disulfide bonds resulting in inclusion 
bodies. Here, we show that a solubility-enhancing peptide (SEP) tag containing 
nine arginine residues (RBD-C9R) attached at the C-terminus can overcome this 
problem. The SEP-tag increased the expression in the soluble fraction and the 
final yield by five times (2 mg/L). The folding properties of the E. coli 
expressed RBD-C9R were demonstrated with biophysical characterization using 
RP-HPLC, circular dichroism, thermal denaturation, fluorescence, and light 
scattering. A quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) analysis confirmed the binding 
activity of RBD-C9R with ACE2, the host cell's receptor. In addition, RBD-C9R 
elicited a Th-2 immune response with a high IgG titer in Jcl: ICR mice. The 
RBD-C9R antisera interacted with both itself and the mammalian-cell expressed 
spike protein (S1), as demonstrated by ELISA, indicating that the E. coli 
expressed RBD-C9R harbors native-like epitopes. Overall, these results emphasize 
the potential of our SEP-tag for the E. coli production of active 
multi-disulfide-bonded RBD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23031703
PMCID: PMC8835783
PMID: 35163624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


399. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Jun;79(4):633-41. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-008-1473-7. Epub 2008 May 7.

Biosynthesis of enantiopure (S)-3-hydroxybutyric acid in metabolically 
engineered Escherichia coli.

Lee SH(1), Park SJ, Lee SY, Hong SH.

Author information:
(1)Corporate R&D, LG Chem, Ltd/Research Park, Yuseong-Gu, Daejeon, Republic of 
Korea.

A biosynthetic pathway for the production of (S)-3-hydroxybutyric acid (S3HB) 
from glucose was established in recombinant Escherichia coli by introducing the 
beta-ketothiolase gene from Ralstonia eutropha H16, the (S)-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA 
dehydrogenase gene from R. eutropha H16, or Clostridium acetobutylicum ATCC824, 
and the 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase gene from Bacillus cereus ATCC14579. 
Artificial operon consisting of these genes was constructed and was expressed in 
E. coli BL21 (DE3) codon plus under T7 promoter by isopropyl beta-D: 
-thiogalactoside (IPTG) induction. Recombinant E. coli BL21 (DE3) codon plus 
expressing the beta-ketothiolase gene, the (S)-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA 
dehydrogenase gene, and the 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase gene could 
synthesize enantiomerically pure S3HB to the concentration of 0.61 g l(-1) from 
20 g l(-1) of glucose in Luria-Bertani medium. Fed-batch cultures of recombinant 
E. coli BL21 (DE3) codon plus were carried out to achieve higher titer of S3HB 
with varying induction time and glucose concentration during fermentation. 
Protein expression was induced by addition of 1 mM IPTG when cell concentration 
reached 10 and 20 g l(-1) (OD(600) = 30 and 60), respectively. When protein 
expression was induced at 60 of OD(600) and glucose was fed to the concentration 
of 15 g l(-1), 10.3 g l(-1) of S3HB was obtained in 38 h with the S3HB 
productivity of 0.21 g l(-1)h(-1). Lowering glucose concentration to 5 g l(-1) 
and induction of protein expression at 30 of OD(600) significantly reduced final 
S3HB concentration to 3.7 g l(-1), which also resulted in the decrease of the 
S3HB productivity to 0.05 g l(-1)h(-1).

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-008-1473-7
PMID: 18461320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 May;29(5):507-10.

[The expression of humam sperm actin-like protein 7a and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu J(1), Miao S, Song W.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Department of Biochemistry 
and Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100005, China. fjbnubio@126.com

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify the recombinant human sperm actin-like protein 
7a (ACTL7a) N terminal (1-70) in E.coli, and prepare the corresponding rabbit 
anti-ACTL7a polyclonal antibodies.
METHODS: We constructed the recombinant expression plasmid pGEX-6p-1-ACTL7a 
(1-70), transformed the plasmid into E.coli BL21 (DE3), and selected positive 
recombinant strain. The target protein was induced to express by IPTG and 
purified by nickel ions-chelating resin and glutathione sepharose 4B resin, and 
finally obtained by molecular sieve chromatography. The purified ACTL7a (1-70) 
protein were used to immunize New Zealand rabbits to prepare anti-ACTL7a 
polyclonal antibodies. The antibody titers were detected by ELISA, the antibody 
specificity by Western blotting, and the localization of ACTL7a in the 
spermatogenic cells of seminiferous tubule epithelium by immunofluorescence 
histochemistry.
RESULTS: The target protein ACTL7a (1-70) was successfully expressed by IPTG in 
E.coli, and the corresponding antiserum was obtained in the rabbits immunized 
with it. The titer of the antiserum reached 1:160 000 and it was proved with a 
good specificity.
CONCLUSION: ACTL7a was expressed in the constructed prokaryotic expression 
vector. After purification and immunization, high titer and specific anti-ACTL7a 
antibody was prepared in rabbits.

PMID: 23643272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2011 Jun;27(6):952-62.

[Intrinsic prokaryotic promoter activity of SUMO gene and its applications in 
the protein expression system of Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Qi Y(1), Zou Z, Zou H, Fan Y, Zhang C.

Author information:
(1)College of Agronomy, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271000, China.

Nowadays, SUMO fusion system is important for recombinant protein production in 
Escherichia coli, yet a few aspects remain to be improved, including the 
efficacy for vector construction and protein solubility. In this study, we found 
the SUMO gene Smt3 (Sm) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae conferred an unexpected 
activity of constitutive prokaryotic promoter during its PCR cloning, and the 
gene coding regions of SUMOs in most species had a sigma70-dependent prokaryotic 
promoter embedded, through the prediction via the BPROM program developed by 
Softberry. By combining the characters of Sm promoter activity and the Stu I 
site (added at the 3'-terminal of Sm), and introducing a His-tag and a 
hyper-acidic solubility-enhancing tag, we further constructed a set of versatile 
vectors for gene cloning and expression on the basis of Sm'-LacZa fusion gene. 
Experimentally started from these vectors, several target genes were subcloned 
and expressed through blue-white screening and SDS-PAGE analysis. The results 
manifest a few of expectable advantages such as rapid vector construction, 
highly soluble protein expression and feasible co-expression of correlated 
proteins. Conclusively, our optimized SUMO fusion technology herein could confer 
a large potential in E. coli protein expression system, and the simultaneously 
established co-expression vector systems could also be very useful in studying 
the protein-protein interactions in vivo.

PMID: 22034825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 Jul;24(7):1306-11.

[Optimization of induction and purification of HIV-1 Gag protein in Escherichia 
coli expression system].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu J(1), Sun J, Chen P, Huo Z, Hao Y, Liu Y.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Infectious Diseases Prevention and Control, National 
Center for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.

To investigate the effects of induction temperature on the expression product 
and the impact of urea concentration on the purification, HIV-1 Gag inclusion 
bodies from E. coli induced at 30 degrees C (IB30) and 37 degrees C (IB37) were 
dissolved with urea of different concentrations. The solubility and yield of 
refolding were compared. IB30 were dissolved with 2 mol/L and 8 mol/L urea, and 
then purified with chromatography. IB30 were found easier to be solubilized in 
low concentration of urea and easier to be refolded than IB37. Furthermore, 
compared to the IB30 dissolved in 8 mol/L urea, Gag protein solubilized in 2 
mol/L urea was purified to higher purity with gel filtration (GF) and ion 
exchange (IEX) chromatography. Gag inclusion body induced at lower temperature 
may contain more protein with native-like or reversibly-denatured structures, 
and solubilization in the presence of low concentrations of urea can help to 
retain these structures. This study has provided new insights into the 
purification of proteins from inclusion bodies.

PMID: 18837413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Oct;32(5):1050-5.

[Optimization of Prokaryotic Expression Conditions of Human β2-microglobulin in 
E. Coli and Its Purification].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiao L, Cai L, Ren Y, Zhao X, Wang J.

To obtain recombinant human β2-microglobulin (rhβ2M) with properties of good 
solubility and high purity from E. coli, prokaryotic expression conditions were 
optimized and protein purification was performed in this study. After testing 
the effect of different IPTG concentrations, temperatures and induction times on 
the production of rhβ2M, the optimum expression conditions were determined, i. 
e. joining IPTG to final concentration being 0.8 mmol/L and inducing time 6 h 
and at temperature of 25 degrees C. Under the optimum induction conditions, the 
ratio of soluble rhβ2M to soluble bacterial protein was 63.7%. After purified by 
Ni Sepharose 6 Fast Flow, the purity of rhβ2M achieved a greater value of 95%. 
Western blot analysis revealed that rhβ2M possessed the antigen property that 
specifically interacted with anti-β2M antibody.

PMID: 26964310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Yao Xue Xue Bao. 2008 Jul;43(7):766-72.

[Optimizing expression and purification of recombinant Salvia miltiorrhiza 
copalyl diphosphate synthase protein in E. coli and preparation of rabbit 
antiserum against SmCPS].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao W(1), Cui GH, Kong JQ, Cheng KD, Wang W, Yuan Y, Huang LQ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Chinese Medical 
Science, Beijing 100700, China.

The expression plasmid pET32CPS harboring SmCPS gene was transformed into E. 
coli BL21 trxB (DE3) resulting in recombinant strain E. coli [pET32CPS]. The 
induction of E. coli [pET32CPS] in different temperatures, induction time, IPTG 
concentrations and A600 values of E. coli were performed. The optimal expression 
conditions of SmCPS were characterized according to the orthogonal analysis, and 
the ratio of the interest protein to total proteins reached to 35.6%. The 
recombinant SmCPS protein purified by Ni2+ affinity chromatography column was 
identified by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting, and then used for rabbit 
immunization. The titer of the rabbit antiserum against SmCPS was about 1:24 300 
after the third immunization, and could specifically recognize the antigen of 
SmCPS protein by Western blotting analysis. The successful preparation of 
polyclonal antibody against SmCPS laid a foundation for further correlative 
study between expression of SmCPS and the production of tanshinones in protein 
level.

PMID: 18819484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Hunan Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2002 Feb 28;27(1):1-3.

[Expression of c-terminal of Parkin in E. coli and the preparation of 
antiserum].

[Article in Chinese]

Ou Yang J(1), Xia J, Zheng D.

Author information:
(1)National Laboratory of Medical Genetics, Central South University, Changsha 
410078, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express 3'-terminal of Parkin gene in E. coli, and 
prepare its antiserum for further study.
METHODS: The glutathion-sulfate-transferase (GST) fusion expression plasmid of 
3'-terminal of Parkin gene (937-1959 bp) was constructed and transferred to JM 
105. After being treated with Triton-100 (1%) and Tween-20 (1%) and purified 
with affinity chromatograph, GST-Parkin C was used to immunize New Zealand 
rabbits to acquire antiserum. Antiserum was analysed with immunoblot.
RESULTS: The GST-Parkin C protein was expressed in JM 105, existing in the form 
of inclusion body with a molecular weight of around 42 kD; The purity of 
GST-Parkin C was up to 95%; the titer of antiserum was 1:64; Immunoblotting 
showed that the prepared antiserum could react specifically with 51.6 kD protein 
extracted from the mouse brain.
CONCLUSION: A high level of expression of GST-Parkin C is obtained in JM 105, 
and its antiserum can be prepared successfully.

PMID: 12575217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Dec;30(12):3221-7. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-014-1749-2. Epub 2014 Sep 26.

Co-expression of Dsb proteins enables soluble expression of a single-chain 
variable fragment (scFv) against human type 1 insulin-like growth factor 
receptor (IGF-1R) in E. coli.

Sun XW(1), Wang XH, Yao YB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Medical College, Hebei University of 
Engineering, 199 South GuangMing Road, Handan, 056038, China, xw_sunny@163.com.

Type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-1R) is a promising therapeutic 
target for cancer treatment. A single-chain variable fragment (scFv) against 
human IGF-1R forms inclusion body when expressed in periplasmic space of E. coli 
routinely. Here, we described that co-expression of appropriate disulfide bonds 
(Dsb) proteins known to catalyze the formation and isomerization of Dsb can 
markedly recover the soluble expression of target scFv in E. coli. A 50 % 
recovery in solubility of the scFv was observed upon co-expression of DsbC 
alone, and a maximum solubility (80 %) was obtained when DsbA and DsbC were 
co-expressed in combination. Furthermore, the soluble scFv present full 
antigen-binding activity with IGF-1R, suggesting its correct folding. This study 
also suggested that the selection of Dsb proteins should be tested case-by-case 
if the approach of co-expression of Dsb system is adopted to address the problem 
of insoluble expression of proteins carrying Dsb.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-014-1749-2
PMID: 25256416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2013 Sep;29(5):529-34.

[Prokaryotic expression and immunogenicity analysis of glycoprotein from 
infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu LM(1), Liu HB(2), Yin JS(2), Lu TY(2).

Author information:
(1)Heilongjiang River Fishery Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery 
Sciences, Harbin 150070, China. lmxu0917@163.com
(2)Heilongjiang River Fishery Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery 
Sciences, Harbin 150070, China.

In order to detect Infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus with immunological 
methods, the surface glycoprotein of a recent IHNV-Sn isolated from farmed 
rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) in China was amplified and cloned into 
pET27b(+) vector (designated as pET27b-G ). The expression of recombinant 
plasmid pET27b-G in E. coli BL21(DE3) was induced and determined by SDS-PAGE 
analysis. The predicted molecular weight of glycoprotein protein was 
approximately 55 kD and was confirmed in this study. The inclusion body of 
glycoprotein was treated with urea at different urea concentrations, and 
dialyzed into PBS buffer. Purified glycoprotein with high concentration was 
obtained after dialyzed in the PBS buffer. Antisera against glycoprotein were 
produced from immunized rabbits. The prepared antisera could react specifically 
with both the recombinant glycoprotein and natural glycoprotein of the IHNV-Sn 
isolated in the test of indirect ELISA, and the titer against the recombinant 
glycoprotein was 1:20,000. IFA showed that the antisera can recognize the 
glycoprotein located on the surface of IHNV-Sn and IHNV reference strain. These 
results indicated that the expressed glycoprotein was immunogenical and 
antigenical and could be functional as the natural IHNV glycoprotein. These 
results established a foundation for further study on vaccine and rapid 
diagnosis of IHNV.

PMID: 24386842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2007 May;23(3):440-5.

[Prokaryotic expression of pilA gene of type I pilus of enteropathogenic 
Escherichia coli isolated from ducks and the immunoprotection effect of 
recombinant expression protein challenged with virulent strains].

[Article in Chinese]

Cheng AC(1), Yu XN, Wang MS, Zhu DK, Li L, Sun L, Chen XY.

Author information:
(1)Avian Disease Research Center, College of Animal Science and Veterinary 
Medicine, Sichuan Agricultural University, Yaan 625014, China.

A pair primer was designed by Oligo 6.0 according to the pilA gene sequence of 
E. coli isolated from human in GenBank. The pilA Gene was obtained by PCR with 
the enteropathogenic E. coli isolated from ducks as template and cloned into 
pMD18-T vector. It was identified by PCR, restriction endonuclease analysis, DNA 
sequencing and then subcloned into BamH I/Hind III site of prokaryotic 
expression vector pET-32a(+) and recombinant expression plasmid pET-32a-pilA was 
constructed successfully. The plasmid was transformed into Eschericha coli BL21 
(DE3) and 36kD pilA recombinant protein was expressed be induced with IPTG. The 
protein was purified by Ni-agarose affinity chromatograghy and was prepared as 
vaccine with Freund' s adjuvant. The ducklings were immunized with the vaccine 
at 1 and 8-day-old respectively. Two weeks after last immunized, the antibody 
titer of duck serum was detected by ELISA and the ducklings were challenged with 
10(9) PFU enteropathogenic E. coli GH1.2 virulent strain. The immunoprotection 
effect of pilA recombinant protein vaccine was evaluated according to the 
mortality, re-isolated rate of E. coli, and grades of pathological changes. The 
results show that the antibody titer are 1:12800, but 1:200 were detected from 
ducklings immunized with homologous whole cells E. coli inactivated vaccine. The 
mortality, re-isolated rate of E. coli, degree of pathological changes of 
immunized ducklings is lower than that of the control ducklings and showed 
significant or extremely significant differences (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05), but 
non-significant difference compared to the ducklings which immunized with 
homologous whole cells E. coli inactivated vaccine (P > 0.05). The results show 
that pilA recombinant protein has some immunoprotection effect with the 
challenging of virulent strains of E. coli GH1.2.

PMID: 17577990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2001 Feb;31(1):49-57. doi: 10.1081/PB-100103371.

Expression of anti-neuroexcitation peptide (ANEP) of scorpion Buthus martensii 
Karsch in Escherichia coli.

Zhang JH(1), Hua ZC, Xu Z, Zheng WJ, Zhu DX.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, College of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, PR China.

According to the cDNA sequence of anti-neuroexcitation peptide of scorpion 
Buthus martensii Karsch, the putative mature anti-neuroexcitation peptide (ANEP) 
encoding DNA fragment was obtained by a PCR method, then was cloned into 
expression plasmid pET28a, fused with His tag at its 3' end. When expressed in 
E. coli BL21 (DE3), the expression of recombinant ANEP was 15% of total cellular 
proteins, while most recombinant ANEP products existed in the form of insoluble 
inclusion bodies. Coexpression of molecular chaperones or protein disulfide 
isomerase could not improve its solubility. The recombinant ANEP in the cell 
lysate was purified to homogeneity by metal chelating affinity chromatography 
and Superdex 30 chromatography. In bioassay with convulsive mice model induced 
by thiosemicarbazide, recombinant ANEP could apparently delay the convulsion 
seizure of model animals by 18% and showed anti-neuroexcitatory activity.

DOI: 10.1081/PB-100103371
PMID: 11321163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Methods Mol Biol. 2008;426:197-208. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60327-058-8_12.

Application of high-throughput methodologies to the expression of recombinant 
proteins in E. coli.

Peleg Y(1), Unger T.

Author information:
(1)Israel Structural Proteomics Center (ISPC), Department of Structural Biology, 
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Despite the large body of knowledge accumulated on recombinant protein 
expression, production, primarily of eukaryotic proteins, remains a challenge. 
The biggest obstacle is in obtaining large amounts of a given protein in a 
correctly folded form. Several strategies are being used to increase both yields 
and solubility. These include expression with fusion proteins, co-expression 
with molecular chaperones or a protein partner, and use of multiple constructs 
for each protein. Any given method may help to increase expression and 
solubility for a given protein, but often more than one rescue strategy should 
be tried. To perform several different rescue strategies on multiple proteins, 
high throughout (HTP) methodologies are applied. This chapter presents HTP 
methodologies for DNA cloning in multiple expression vectors and expression 
screening to identify clones capable of producing soluble proteins.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60327-058-8_12
PMID: 18542865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Biotechnol. 2004 May 13;110(1):95-103. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2004.02.001.

Development of a high cell-density fed-batch bioprocess for the heterologous 
production of 6-deoxyerythronolide B in Escherichia coli.

Lau J(1), Tran C, Licari P, Galazzo J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Process Science, Kosan Biosciences, Inc., 3832 Bay Center 
Place, Hayward, CA 94545, USA. lau@kosan.com

A robust high cell-density fed-batch bioprocess was developed for the 
heterologous production of 6-deoxyerythronolide B (6-dEB), the macrocyclic core 
of the antibiotic erythromycin, with a recombinant Escherichia coli strain 
expressing the 6-deoxyerythronolide B synthase (DEBS) from Saccharopolyspora 
erythraea. Initial evaluation of the E. coli strain in a 5-l bioreactor with the 
addition of exogenous propionate for polyketide biosynthesis resulted in a 
maximum cell density of 30 g l(-1) (OD600 approximately 60) and the production 
of 700 mg l(-1) of 6-dEB. Retention of the two plasmids harboring the 
heterologous genes was maintained between 90 and 100% even in the absence of 
antibiotic selection. However, the accumulation of excess ammonia in the culture 
medium was found to significantly decrease the productivity of the cells. 
Through optimization of the medium composition and fermentation conditions, the 
maximum cell density was increased by two-fold, and a final titer of 1.1 g l(-1) 
of 6-dEB was achieved. This represents an 11-fold improvement compared to the 
highest reported titer of 100 mg l(-1) with E. coli as the production host.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2004.02.001
PMID: 15099909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Apr;27(4):419-21.

[Prokaryotic expression of extracellular region of human BTLA and preparation 
and identification of its antiserum].

[Article in Chinese]

Zheng SH(1), Liu W, Lv J, Wang HM, Bao JJ, Xu JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Dongguan 
523808, China.

AIM: To prokaryotically express and purify fusion protein containing 
extracellular region of human BTLA and prepare the antiserum of it.
METHODS: Human BTLA (hBTLA) gene was amplified by PCR, digested with enzymes, 
ligated and subcloned into a his-tagged prokaryotic expression vector to 
generate a recombinant plasmid named pET28a-hBTLA. Then pET28a-hBTLA was 
transformed into E.coli BL21 (DE3). The hBTLA fusion protein was obtained upon 
IPTG induction, purified by Ni-NTA Purification System, and analyzed by 
SDS-PAGE. Rabbit anti-hBTLA antiserum was prepared and identified.
RESULTS: The pET28a-hBTLA plasmid was confirmed to carry the correct hBTLA gene 
by sequencing. It expressed a 15.7kD protein that could be purified by Ni-NTA 
purification system. The titer of the multiclonal antibody was 1:16 detected by 
double diffusion test, and 1:20 000 by ELISA, respectively. The anti-hBTLA 
antibodies can bind to hBTLA specifically shown by Western blot.
CONCLUSION: The prokaryotic expression vector has been constructed successfully, 
leading to highly purified hBTLA protein. The antiserum of hBTLA has been 
prepared, with high titer and specificity.

PMID: 21481321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2003 Jul;19(4):439-43.

[Site-directed mutagensis of the major antigen E2 gene of CSFV, its high level 
expression in Escherichia coli and the immunonicity of recombinant E2 protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu XL(1), Tu CC, Xu XR, Zhang ML, Chen YX, Liu BH.

Author information:
(1)Changchun University of Agricultural and Animal Sciences, Changchun 130062, 
China.

Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), an enveloped positive-stranded RNA virus in 
the genus Pestivirus of the Flaviviridae family, is the causative agent of a 
highly contagious swine disease characterized by symptoms of hemorrhagic fever 
and immune depression, usually leading to substantial economic losses. The 
serological methods for detection of CSFV antibody such as ELISA are important 
means for the diagnosis of CSFV and immune surveillance. It is difficult to 
obtain CSFV antigen with high quality using traditional method because its 
titration titer is low in cell culture. CSFV has four structural protein named 
C, E0, El and E2. The E2 protein contains major antigenic determinants that are 
conserved between different CSFV strains and involved in neutralization by 
antibodies. So recombinant E2 protein can be developed as an alternative to the 
intact viral antigen. So far, CSFV E2 have not been expressed in E. coli with 
high level. Many factors, such as the secondary structure, the stability of 5' 
and 3' terminus of gene, the location of SD sequence and the bias of codes, are 
involved in the expressing level of foreign gene in E. coli . In this study, two 
sites of the E2 gene sequence were confirmed to be detrimental to its expression 
efficiency in E. coli through the computer-aided analysis. So they were mutated 
using recombinant PCR without changing the amino acids sequence of CSFV E2 gene. 
A plasmid was constructed by inserting the mutated E2 gene into the prokaryotic 
expression vector pET-28a(+) and named pETE2. The E. coli competent host BL21 
(DE3)lysS transformed with pETE2 could express the E2 gene at high level, 
amounting to 28% of the total protein of the induced recombinant bacteria at the 
presence of IPTG. Except the hydrophobic transmembrane domain at C terminus, the 
recombinant E2 protein includes the total aa sequence. So it contains all the 
potential linear antigen epitopes of E2 protein because hydrophobic aa region 
can not form epitope. The recombinant E2 protein was CSFV-specific as proved by 
Western blotting and indirect ELISA. The rabbits immunized with the recombinant 
E2 can be protect from the challenge of hog cholera lapinized virus. This is the 
first report that E2 gene is expressed with high level expression in E. coli. In 
conclusion, it is an effective measure that mutate the CSFV E2 gene to increase 
its expression level in E. coli. The recombinant CSFV E2 protein possess fine 
immunonicity and can be used the antigen for the detection of CSFV antibody.

PMID: 15969061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2003 Dec 19;312(3):825-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2003.10.193.

A system using convertible vectors for screening soluble recombinant proteins 
produced in Escherichia coli from randomly fragmented cDNAs.

Nakayama M(1), Ohara O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Gene Research, Kazusa DNA Research Institute, Chiba, 
Japan. nmanabu@kazusa.or.jp

Protein insolubility is a major problem when producing recombinant proteins 
(e.g., to be used as antigens) from large cDNAs in Escherichia coli. Here, we 
describe a system using three convertible plasmid vectors to screen for soluble 
proteins produced in E. coli. This system experimentally identified any random 
cDNA fragments producing soluble protein domains. Shotgun fragments introduced 
into any of our three plasmids, which contain Gateway recombination sites, fused 
in-frame to the ORF of the protein tag. These plasmids produced N-terminal GST- 
and C-terminal three-frame-adaptive FLAG-tagged proteins, kanamycin-resistant 
gene-tagged proteins (which were pre-selected for in-frame fused cDNAs), or 
GFP-tagged fusion proteins. The latter is useful as a fluorescence indicator of 
protein folding. The Gateway recombination sites promote smooth conversion for 
enrichment of in-frame clones and facilitate both protein solubility assays and 
final production of proteins without the C-terminal tag. This high-throughput 
screening method is particularly useful for procedures that require the handling 
of many cDNAs in parallel.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2003.10.193
PMID: 14680840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Jul;31(7):972-6, 981.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of antitoxin higA of 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu D(1), Yi Z(2), Fu Y(3), Li S(4), Yang S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Diagnostics, Weifang Medical University, 
Weifang 261053, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Clinical Laboratory Diagnostics, Hospita1Affiliated to Weifang Medical 
University, Weifang 261031, China.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, Weifang Medical University, Weifang 
261053, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Third People's Hospital of Heze, Heze 
274031, China.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, PLA 401 Hospital, Qingdao 266000, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone higA gene from genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, express 
higA protein in E.coli and prepare polyclonal antibodies against higA protein of 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
METHODS: HigA gene was obtained by PCR from the genome of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis H37Rv strain and inserted into E.coli plasmid pET-32a⁺. The 
recombinant expression vector pET-32a⁺-higA was then transformed into 
prokaryotic expression bacterium E.coli BL21, and the recombinant protein higA 
was expressed in E.coli BL21 under IPTG induction. The protein was identified by 
SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. Purified protein higA was used to immunize New 
Zealand rabbits to prepare anti-higA polyclonal antibody. Quality and quantity 
of the antibody were examined.
RESULTS: HigA gene was successfully amplified and inserted into pET-32a.⁺ DNA 
sequencing confirmed the positive recombinant plasmid pET-32a⁺-higA screened by 
PCR and restriction enzyme digestion analysis. After induction with IPTG, the 
recombinant protein higA with 36.63 kDa was successfully expressed in E.coli 
BL21. Rabbit anti-higA polyclonal antibody with a good specificity was obtained, 
and the titer was above 1:3200.
CONCLUSION: The higA protein was successfully expressed in E.coli BL21. Rabbit 
anti-higA antibody with high titer and specificity was prepared.

PMID: 26146070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jun;28(6):614-7.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of human novel gene 
CTRP4].

[Article in Chinese]

Tan WF(1), Wang LL, Li Q, Luo Y, Na DX, Ma Z, Wang L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Disease Genomics, Peking University, Beijing, China.

AIM: To further investigate the biological function of human novel gene CTRP4 by 
constructing the prokaryotic expression vector of human CTRP4, inducing the 
expression of and purifying hCTRP4-his protein in E.coli, and preparing 
polyclonal antibody against human CTRP4.
METHODS: Human CTRP4 gene was amplified by PCR, digested with enzymes, and 
subcloned into a his-tagged prokaryotic expression vector to generate a 
recombinant plasmid named pET-32a-hCTRP4. The pET-32a-hCTRP4 was transformed 
into E.coli BL21(DE3). The hCTRP4-his fusion protein was induced by IPTG, 
purified by Ni-NTA purification system, and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The 
recombinant vector pcDNA3.1-myc/his(-)B-hCTRP4 expressing full-length human 
CTRP4 and purified prokaryotic protein hCTRP4 were used to immunize BALB/c mice 
to produce polyclonal antibody. The anti-serum was purified and the 
characteristics of the antibody were identified by ELISA, Western blotting, 
immunofluorescence cytochemistry and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression vector of pET-32a-hCTRP4 was constructed 
successfully. hCTRP4-his fusion protein was expressed in E.coli BL21(DE3) after 
IPTG induction. The titer of the anti-serum reached 1:20 000, and its 
specificity was proved by Western blotting. The results of immunofluorescence 
cytochemistry and immunohistochemistry indicated that CTRP4 was mainly localized 
in the cytoplasm of hepatic cells.
CONCLUSION: hCTRP4-his fusion protein can be successfully expressed in E.coli. A 
specific polyclonal antibody against human CTRP4 has been successfully prepared.

PMID: 22691353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Appl Microbiol. 2005;98(1):210-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2004.02446.x.

GroEL-GroES solubilizes abundantly expressed xylulokinase in Escherichia coli.

Bu S(1), Tsang PW, Fu RZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong 
Kong, China.

AIMS: The aims of the present work were to solubilize the abundantly expressed 
recombinant xylulokinase in Escherichia coli and to develop a reliable 
xylulokinase assay.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Three mutants of xylulokinase of Bacillus megaterium that 
were expressed at high level but formed insoluble protein in E. coli 
BL21(DE3)pLysS were selected for solubility study. The solubility of 
xylulokinase increased eight to 77-fold after introduction of molecular 
chaperones GroEL-GroES into the host.
CONCLUSION: This investigation reports that GroEL-GroES minimizes the formation 
of insoluble protein in three highly expressed recombinant xylulokinases and an 
improved xylulokinase assay.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Commercial production of bioethanol is 
critically dependent on the development of an efficient and low-cost process of 
enzymatic conversion of xylan, a major component in lignocellulose biomass, to 
xylulose-5-phosphate, which can then be channelled into pentose phosphate 
pathway and metabolized to ethanol. The improved intracellular xylulokinase 
activity is expected to facilitate the xylose degradation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2004.02446.x
PMID: 15610434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2003 May;19(3):282-3.

[The expression of fusion protein GST-GP302 in E.coli and its preparation of 
rabbit anti-serum].

[Article in Chinese]

Su L(1), Zhao JX, Wang B, Zhang YH, Guan LD, Wang ZL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Transfusion, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 
100850, China.

AIM: To express fusion protein of GST and vWf binding domain(GP302) of platelet 
GPIbalpha in E.coli and its preparation of rabbit anti-serum.
METHODS: GP302 gene was inserted into pGEX-4T-1. The recombinant vector was 
identificated by restriction endonuclease digestion analysis. Fusion protein 
GST-GP302 was expressed in E.coli via IPTG induction. The rabbit antibody 
against GST-GP302 was prepared by using renatured GST-GP302 as immuneogen and 
the specificity of polyclonal antibody was identified by Western blot.
RESULTS: The restriction endonuclease digestion analysis of recombinant plasmid 
demonstrated that the GP302 gene had been exactly inserted into pGEX-4T-1. 
SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the ralative molecular mass(M(r)) of the fusion 
protein was about 59 000. ELISA analysis proved that the titer of rabbit serum 
against GST-GP302 was 10(-5). The polyclonal antibody specifically bound to 
purified platelet GPIbalpha.
CONCLUSION: The preparation of polyclonal antibody against GP302 peptide 
provides an usefal reagent for the detection of platelet GPIbalpha.

PMID: 15155095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Vaccine. 2009 Aug 27;27(39):5376-82. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.06.072. Epub 
2009 Jul 9.

Vaccination with the Mycoplasma suis recombinant adhesion protein MSG1 elicits a 
strong immune response but fails to induce protection in pigs.

Hoelzle K(1), Doser S, Ritzmann M, Heinritzi K, Palzer A, Elicker S, Kramer M, 
Felder KM, Hoelzle LE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Veterinary Bacteriology, University Zurich, Winterthurerstr. 
270, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. khoelzle@vetbakt.uzh.ch

Mycoplasma suis is the unculturable pathogen of porcine infectious anemia. The 
study was aimed to determine the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of MSG1, 
an immunodominant adhesin of M. suis as the first vaccine candidate against M. 
suis. The results demonstrated that recombinant MSG1 and Escherichia coli 
transformants expressing MSG1 (E. coli_MSG1) induced a strong humoral and 
cellular immunity against M. suis. The induced antibodies were found to be 
functionally active as confirmed by an in vitro adhesion inhibition assay. Both, 
IgG1 and IgG2 antibodies were induced, but E. coli_MSG1 immune response was 
characterized by a significantly higher IgG1 antibody production. Both vaccine 
candidates failed to protect against M. suis challenge. However, E. coli_MSG1 
vaccination has a considerable effect on the severity of the disease as shown by 
higher post-challenge hemoglobin and hematocrit values in comparison to control 
groups. This indicated that a high IgG1 antibody titer is negatively connected 
with severity of M. suis-induced anemia. Furthermore, the induction of 
monospecific anti-MSG1 antibodies by both vaccine candidates clearly allows for 
the differentiation between infected and vaccinated animals (DIVA principle). 
Overall, the importance of MSG1 as potential vaccine candidate remains to be 
established. Future studies will evaluate the conditions (i.e. adjuvant, 
vaccination scheme, and application route) to optimize the effects of E. 
coli_MSG1 vaccines.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.06.072
PMID: 19596408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Dec;31(12):1693-7, 1709.

[Preparation and application of monoclonal antibody against human LOC339524 
protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Long Z(1), Li H(2), Chen F(1), Yi W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Second Affiliate Hospital, Third Military 
Medical University, Chongqing 400037, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Second Affiliate Hospital, Third Military 
Medical University, Chongqing 400037, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
Lh78553@163.com.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Third Military Medical University, 
Chongqing 400038, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare and apply monoclonal antibody (mAb) against human 
LOC339524 protein.
METHODS: The non-glycosylated antigenic gene sequence of the LOC339524 protein 
was expressed in triplicate to enhance immunogenicity. Then this synthetic gene 
was connected to pET28a plasmid. Recombinant LOC339524 protein was obtained by 
E.coli expression system and was administered intraperitoneally as an immunogen 
to BALB/c mice to obtain mAb. The specificity and titer of the mAb were 
characterized by ELISA. Recombinant LOC339524 protein was identified through 
Western blotting. The expression of the LOC339524 protein in human myocardial 
tissues and H9C2 cells were detected by immunohistochemistry, and its level in 
the sera of patients with different heart diseases was detected with the 
antibody.
RESULTS: We obtained two hybridoma cell lines, 5-D3 and 4-F8, secreting specific 
mAbs against LOC339524 protein. The titer of 5-D3 was up to 2×10(6), higher than 
the titer of 4-F8. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry demonstrated that 
5-D3 could specifically recognize LOC339524 protein of Homo sapiens and Rattus 
norvegicus. With the antibody we obtained, we successfully detected the serum 
level of LOC339524 protein in patients with different heart diseases.
CONCLUSION: The mAb against human LOC339524 protein with good specificity and 
high titer has been successfully prepared.

PMID: 26648306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Infect Immun. 2005 Jul;73(7):3963-70. doi: 10.1128/IAI.73.7.3963-3970.2005.

posttranslational modification of recombinant Plasmodium falciparum apical 
membrane antigen 1: impact on functional immune responses to a malaria vaccine 
candidate.

Giersing B(1), Miura K, Shimp R, Wang J, Zhou H, Orcutt A, Stowers A, Saul A, 
Miller LH, Long C, Singh S.

Author information:
(1)Malaria Vaccine Development Branch, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases, Twinbrook I, Room 1210A, 5640 Fisher Lane, Rockville, 
Maryland 20852, USA.

Recombinant apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA1) is a leading vaccine candidate for 
Plasmodium falciparum malaria, as antibodies against recombinant P. falciparum 
AMA1 (PfAMA1) interrupt merozoite invasion into erythrocytes. In order to 
investigate the role of posttranslational modification in modulating the 
functional immune response to recombinant AMA1, two separate alleles of PfAMA1 
(FVO and 3D7), in which native N-glycosylation sites have been mutated, were 
produced using Escherichia coli and a Pichia pastoris expression system. 
Recombinant Pichia pastoris AMA1-FVO (PpAMA1-FVO) and PpAMA1-3D7 are O-linked 
glycosylated, and 45% of PpAMA1-3D7 is nicked, though all four recombinant 
molecules react with conformation-specific monoclonal antibodies. To address the 
immunological effect of O-linked glycosylation, we compared the immunogenicity 
of E. coli AMA1-FVO (EcAMA1-FVO) and PpAMA1-FVO antigens, since both molecules 
are intact. The effect of antigen nicking was then investigated by comparing the 
immunogenicity of EcAMA1-3D7 and PpAMA1-3D7. Our data demonstrate that there is 
no significant difference in the rabbit antibody titer elicited towards 
EcAMA1-FVO and PpAMA1-FVO or to EcAMA1-3D7 and PpAMA1-3D7. Furthermore, we have 
demonstrated that recombinant AMA1 (FVO or 3D7), whether expressed and refolded 
from E. coli or produced from the Pichia expression system, is equivalent and 
mimics the functionality of the native protein in in vitro growth inhibition 
assay experiments. We conclude that in the case of recombinant AMA1, the E. 
coli- and P. pastoris-derived antigens are immunologically and functionally 
equivalent and are unaffected by the posttranslational modification resulting 
from expression in these two systems.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.73.7.3963-3970.2005
PMCID: PMC1168543
PMID: 15972483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2014 Jun 10;60:64-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.04.007. Epub 2014 Apr 18.

Improvement of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activity of Phaeodactylum 
tricornutum PEPCase 1 through protein engineering.

Chang KS(1), Jeon H(1), Seo S(1), Lee Y(1), Jin E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Research Institute for Natural Sciences, Hanyang 
University, Seoul 133-791, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science, Research Institute for Natural Sciences, Hanyang 
University, Seoul 133-791, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
esjin@hanyang.ac.kr.

In order to mitigate CO2 accumulation and decrease the rate of global warming 
and climate change, we previously presented a strategy for the development of an 
efficient CO2 capture and utilization system. The system employs two recombinant 
enzymes, carbonic anhydrase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, which were 
originated from microalgae. Although utilization of this integrated system would 
require a large quantity of high quality PEPCase protein, such quantities could 
be produced by increasing the solubility of the Phaeodactylum tricornutum 
PEPCase 1 (PtPEPCase 1) protein in the Escherichia coli heterologous expression 
system. We first expressed the putative mitochondria targeting peptide- and 
chloroplast transit peptide-truncated proteins of PtPEPCase 1, mPtPEPCase 1 and 
cPtPEPCase 1, respectively, in E. coli. After affinity chromatography, the 
amount of purified PEPCase protein from 500mL of E. coli culture was greatest 
for cPtPEPCase 1 (1.99mg), followed by mPtPEPCase 1 (0.82mg) and PtPEPCase 1 
(0.61mg). Furthermore, the enzymatic activity of mPtPEPCase 1 and cPtPEPCase 1 
showed approximately 1.6-fold (32.19 units/mg) and 3-fold (59.48 units/mg) 
increases, respectively. Therefore, cPtPEPCase 1 purified using the E. coli 
heterogeneous expression system could be a strong candidate for a platform 
technology to capture CO2 and produce value-added four-carbon platform 
chemicals.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.04.007
PMID: 24835101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Aug;28(8):847-50.

[Preparation of anti-BRDT-NY polyclonal antibody and expression of BRDT-NY 
protein in digestive tract tumors].

[Article in Chinese]

Ding WM(1), Yang L, Zheng Y, Sun HY, Liang H, Wang JJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical Centre, Medical College, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China. 
wmding@yzu.edu.cn

AIM: To prepare the mouse polyclonal antibody against human BRDT-NY prokaryotic 
protein and analyze the expression of BRDT-NY protein in digestive tract tumors.
METHODS: The N-terminal amino acids of BRDT-NY protein was amplified by PCR and 
cloned into the expression vector pET28a(+). The recombinant plasmid 
pET28a+-BRDT-NY was transformed into E.coli BL21 and induced to express the 
recombinant protein with IPTG. We immunized BALB/c mice with the purified 
BRDT-NY protein for preparing the specific polyclonal antibody. The titer of the 
antibody was analyzed by ELISA. The expression of BRDT-NY protein in digestive 
tract tumors was detected by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Recombinant human BRDT-NY protein was expressed in BL21 and purified 
successfully by Ni-affinity chromatography. Two months after the mice were 
immunized with the purified BRDT-NY protein, we obtained the specific polyclonal 
antibody of high titer 1:100 000. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that 
BRDT-NY protein was highly expressed in digestive tract tumors.
CONCLUSION: The successful preparation of mouse polyclonal antibody against 
BRDT-NY lays a foundation for the research on the role of BRDT-NY protein in the 
pathology of human digestive tract tumors.

PMID: 22863594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2004;5(1-2):69-74. doi: 
10.1023/B:JSFG.0000029197.44728.c5.

Using an Escherichia coli cell-free extract to screen for soluble expression of 
recombinant proteins.

Busso D(1), Kim R, Kim SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-5230, 
USA.

Erratum in
    J Struct Funct Genomics. 2004;5(4):277.

For structural and functional genomics programs, new high-throughput methods to 
characterize well-expressing and highly soluble proteins are essential. A faster 
and more convenient approach to screen expression conditions of recombinant 
proteins compared to classical in vivo systems is the Escherichia coli cell-free 
expression system. Here, we describe a rapid procedure to screen for expression 
and solubility of recombinant proteins using an E. coli cell-free extract. The 
results presented cover 24 open reading frames of unknown function from 
different micro-organisms. In order to screen different variables that may 
interfere with solubility, we expressed the recombinant proteins with a 
histidine6 tag, either N-terminal or C-terminal at two temperatures (25 degrees 
C and 30 degrees C). The identification of recombinant proteins is performed by 
the dot blot procedure using an anti-histidine tag antibody. We designed a rapid 
method that allows the characterization of soluble candidates from a large 
number of genes or from a large number of variants that is highly compatible 
with structural genomics expectations.

DOI: 10.1023/B:JSFG.0000029197.44728.c5
PMID: 15263845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2015 Nov 4;55(11):1427-36.

[Construction of butanol-producing pathway from Clostridium saccharobutylicum in 
Escherichia coli JM109 (DE3) and its fermentation].

[Article in Chinese]

Li J, Han R, Xu G, Dong J, Ni Y.

OBJECTIVE: ] Several key genes (thlA, bcs-operon/crt-bcd1 -etfB2-fixB2-hbd and 
adhE) in butanol pathway from Clostridium saccharobutylicum DSM13864 were 
cloned, and a butanol-producing Escherichia coli strain was successfully 
constructed.
METHODS: Using genome of Clostridium saccharobutylicum DSM13864 as template, the 
key genes in butanol synthesis pathway were amplified, the recombinant plasmids 
pETDuet-bcs and pRSFDuet-thlA-adhE were constructed. Then the resultant plasmids 
were transformed into E. coli JM109 (DE3) to obtain E. coli BUT1 for butanol 
production, under the semi-anaerobic condition. Effects of different mediums on 
butanol production were studied.
RESULTS: The recombinant E. coli was capable of producing butanol (25.4 mg/L) 
under semi-anaerobic fermentation. After optimization on the fermentation 
medium, butanol titer reached 34.1 mg/L.
CONCLUSION: Butanol production by recombinant E. coli harboring exogenous 
butanol-producing pathway from Clostridium saccharobutylicum provides a feasible 
solution to overcome the hurdles in traditional butanol production approach by 
Clostridia.

PMID: 26915224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Nov;27(11):1169-72.

[Prokaryotic expression and immunogenicity analysis of the chimeric HBcAg 
containing APP beta cleavage site peptide and Aβ(1-15);].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng GF(1), Wang JY, Jin H, Wang WX, Qian YH, Yang WN, Wang QY, Yang GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Histo/Embryology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, 
Xi'an, China. fenggaifeng@163.com

AIM: To construct the recombinant prokaryotic expression plasmid 
pET/c-ABCSP-Aβ(15-c);, and evaluate the immunogenicity of the fusion protein 
expressed in E.coli.
METHODS: The gene fragment HBc88-144 was amplified by PCR and subcloned to 
pUC19. The APP beta cleavage site peptide(ABCSP) and Aβ(1-15); 
gene(ABCSP-Aβ(15);) was amplified by PCR and inserted downstream of HBc1-71 in 
pGEMEX/c1-71. After restriction enzyme digestion, c1-17-ABCSP-Aβ(15); were 
connected with HBc88-144, yielding the recombinant gene c-ABCSP-Aβ(15-c);. 
c-ABCSP-Aβ(15-c); gene was subcloned into pET-28a(+).The fusion protein 
expressed in transformed E.coli BL21 was induced with IPTG and analyzed by 
SDS-PAGE. The virus-like particles (VLP) formed by fusion protein was observed 
with Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM). 4 Kunming (KM) mice received 
intraperitoneal injection (i.p) of fusion protein VLP. The antibody was detected 
by indirect ELISA.
RESULTS: The recombinant gene was confirmed by restriction enzyme digestion and 
DNA sequencing. After IPTG induction, fusion protein was expressed and mainly 
existed in the sediment of the bacterial lysate. The expression level was 40% of 
all the proteins in the sediment. The fusion protein could form VLP. After 5 
times of immunization, the titer of anti-ABCSP and anti-Aβantibody in sera of KM 
mice reached up to 1:5 000 and 1:10 000 respectively, while the anti-HBc 
antibody was undetectable.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant c-ABCSP-Aβ(15-c); gene can be expressed in E.coli. The 
expressed protein could form VLP and has a strong immunogenicity. This study 
lays the foundation for the study of AD genetic engineering vaccine.

PMID: 22078439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Sep;23(9):856-8.

[Prokaryotic expression of F10 and preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu X(1), Zou DT, Zhou WQ, Xing FQ, Li B.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Medical Research Center, Guangzhou Medical College, Guangzhou 
510182, China. fuxin@gzhmc.edu.cn

AIM: To induce the expression of F10 in E.coli and prepare the rabbit polyclonal 
antibody against it.
METHODS: The gene of F10 was amplified by PCR, and cloned into expression vector 
pET-GST to construct recombinant expression plasmid pET-GST/F10. The recombinant 
plasmid was transformed into E.coli BL21 and induced to express recombinant 
protein with IPTG. The fusion protein was further purified by affinity 
chromatography and analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot. A rabbit was immunized 
with the purified F10 fusion protein to produce polyclonal antibody, and the 
production of antibody was confirmed by ELISA.
RESULTS: Restriction enzyme digestion and DNA sequencing analysis suggested that 
the recombinant expression plasmid contained correct coding region of F10. 
SDS-PAGE demonstrated that the recombinant protein was expressed with the 
expected molecular weight at 61 kD. After purified, the purity of the fusion 
protein was above 90%. Western blot confirmed the recombinant protein was 
GST/F10 fusion protein. Rabbit polyclonal antibody was obtained, the titer of 
which was 1:20 000.
CONCLUSION: F10 recombinant expression vector has been successfully constructed 
and F10 protein has been expressed. The obtained rabbit anti F10 antibody has a 
high titer and will facilitate the study of the biological function of F10.

PMID: 17825236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2011 Aug;24(8):607-16. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzr030. Epub 
2011 Jul 5.

Functional expression of a plant hydroxynitrile lyase in Escherichia coli by 
directed evolution: creation and characterization of highly in vivo soluble 
mutants.

Asano Y(1), Dadashipour M, Yamazaki M, Doi N, Komeda H.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama 
Prefectural University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama 939-0398, Japan. 
asano@pu-toyama.ac.jp

Low protein solubility of recombinantly expressed proteins in Escherichia coli 
is a major factor hindering their application and analysis. We generated highly 
in vivo soluble mutants of a hydroxynitrile lyase in E.coli using protein 
engineering. Structure-guided saturation mutagenesis caused high solubility of 
single Lys-Pro mutations at positions 176, 199 and 224 of this low soluble 
wild-type enzyme. The triple Lys-Pro mutant generated at these surface conserved 
residues showed up to 8-fold increase in specific activity in the cell-free 
extract. Random mutagenesis also created a mutant of His103Met with 18.5-fold 
increase. The main expression form was reversed from insoluble to the soluble 
fraction following both types of above-mentioned mutations in E.coli at 37°C. 
The findings challenge the rationale of producing recombinant proteins in this 
host at 37°C. Formerly wild type low soluble protein was then present as soluble 
protein by these mutations, which also elevated the total soluble protein 
fraction in E.coli. Saturation mutagenesis of His103 provided other highly 
soluble mutants with hydrophobic substitutions. These mutations caused only 
minor secondary structural changes as determined by circular dichroism and 
Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy and affected catalytic efficiency 
slightly for the purified mutants (0.82-1.6-fold for benzaldehyde and 
0.9-1.9-fold for mandelonitrile). The stability of the mutants was differed from 
that of the wild type at high temperatures and at pH >8. Exchanging the buried 
basic-polar residue His103 with hydrophobic amino acids is in line with the 
overall structure of the enzyme, i.e. having hydrophilic residues in 
solvent-exposed areas and hydrophobic residues in the core.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzr030
PMID: 21729945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;978:229-36. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-293-3_17.

Screening libraries for improved solubility: using E. coli dihydrofolate 
reductase as a reporter.

Liu JW(1), Ollis DL.

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences, Canberra, Australia.

Low protein solubility is a problem in many areas of protein science. Although 
chemical methods have been developed to solubilize proteins these are not always 
effective and add to the cost of producing the protein. One way of overcoming 
these difficulties is to evolve the protein to be more soluble. A major hurdle 
in this process is the ability to select mutant proteins with enhanced 
solubility from a large library of randomly mutated proteins. In this article, 
we describe such a method. The method relies on the fact that increasing the 
expression of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) makes Escherichia coli resistant to 
Trimethoprim (TMP). Proteins fused to DHFR will produce chimeras with altered 
levels of resistance to TMP. This variation in TMP resistance can be used to 
identify mutant proteins with enhanced solubility.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-293-3_17
PMID: 23423901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Sep;37(1):207-12. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.04.024.

High-level expression and purification of a recombinant hBD-1 fused to LMM 
protein in Escherichia coli.

Cipáková I(1), Hostinová E, Gasperík J, Velebný V.

Author information:
(1)CPN spol. s r.o., 561 02 Dolní Dobrouc, 401, Czech Republic. 
icipakova@yahoo.com

In this work, we present the production of an active 43 aa recombinant human 
beta-defensin-1 (rhBD-1(43)) in Escherichia coli AD202 cells using specific 
pLMM1-rhBD-1 expression system. Unique solubility properties of the C-terminal 
fragment of light meromyosin (LMM) allowed us to overcome foreseeable problems 
with isolation procedures and toxicity caused by rhBD-1 to the host organism. As 
a result, the majority of fusion protein (LMM-rhBD-1(43)) was obtained in the 
soluble state, isolated by a low salt-high salt treatment of total cell protein. 
The rhBD-1(43) was cleaved from the fusion with Protease 4 and purified on CM 
Sepharose Fast Flow column with the yield of approximately 1 mg rhBD-1(43) from 
6 g of wet weight cells. Purified rhBD-1(43) showed antimicrobial activity 
against E. coli ML-35p at a concentration of 129 microM. The procedure of rhBD-1 
expression and purification we present can provide a reliable and simple method 
for production of different cationic peptides for biological studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.04.024
PMID: 15294300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Nov;62(1):120-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.07.007. Epub 
2008 Jul 29.

pCold-GST vector: a novel cold-shock vector containing GST tag for soluble 
protein production.

Hayashi K(1), Kojima C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biophysics, Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara 
Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST), Ikoma, Nara 630 0192, Japan.

The production of recombinant protein in Escherichia coli is often hampered by 
low expression levels and low solubility. A variety of methodologies have been 
developed including protein production at low temperature, and fusion protein 
expression using soluble protein tags. Here, we present the novel cold-shock 
vector pCold-GST for high-level expression of soluble proteins in E. coli. This 
vector is a modified pCold I cold-shock vector that includes the glutathione 
S-transferase (GST) tag. The pCold-GST expression system developed was applied 
to 10 proteins that could not be expressed using conventional E. coli expression 
methodologies, and nine of these proteins were successfully obtained in the 
soluble fraction. The expression and purification of two unstable protein 
fragments were also demonstrated by employing a C-terminal hexa-histidine tag 
for purification purposes. The purified proteins were amenable to NMR analyses. 
These data suggest that the pCold-GST expression system can be utilized to 
improve the expression and purification of various proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.07.007
PMID: 18694833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jul;28(7):711-4.

[Prokaryotic expression of Nanog gene and preparation of anti-Nanog antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Li J(1), Wang XM, Dou ZY, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Pharmacy Technology, Ningxia Collage of Vocation 
and Technology, Ningxia University, Yinchuan 750021, China. lijunamy@126.com

AIM: To express Nanog fusion protein in Escherichia coli ( E.coli), and to 
prepare rabbit anti-mouse polyclonal antibodies to the Nanog fusion protein.
METHODS: Mouse Nanog gene was amplified from the pNA992 recombinant plasmid and 
inserted into pET-32a vector to construct a recombinant expression vector 
pET-32a-Nanog. The recombinant vector was transfected into E.coli BL21 and 
induced by IPTG to express in them. The acquired Nanog fusion protein was 
purified with HisTrap affinity column and injected as an antigen into rabbits 
for preparing polyclonal antibodies. At last, the titer and specificity of the 
polyclonal antibodies were analyzed with indirect ELISA, Western blotting and 
immunocytochemical staining, respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant expression vector pET-32a-Nanog was successfully 
prepared, transfected and induced to obtain the high expression of the Nanog 
fusion protein in a form of inclusion bodies in E.coli. After purification, its 
purity was up to 97%. The titer of anti-Nanog antibodies was 1:32 000 in the 
immunized rabbit serum, and exhibited a high specificity to Nanog protein.
CONCLUSION: The rabbit anti-mouse polyclonal antibodies have been prepared 
successfully with a high titer and specificity to the Nanog fusion protein.

PMID: 22768860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Sep;28(9):952-5.

[Preparation and function of human soluble FcγRIIb].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L(1), Cao XQ, Yang ZW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathogenic Biology and Immunology, Ningxia Medical University, 
Yinchuan, China.

AIM: To detect the concentration of soluble FcγRIIb in blood sera of SLE 
patients and healthy controls, then to obtain recombinant human soluble FcγRIIb 
protein (husFcγRIIb) in Escherichia coli (E.coli) and examine its binding 
capability with immune complexes (IC) and its effect on IgM secretion by B 
cells.
METHODS: The concentration of husFcγRIIb in blood sera of SLE patients and 
healthy controls was detected by ELISA. E.coli BL21, containing pET-sFcγRIIb, 
was stimulated by IPTG to induce husFcγRIIb expression, and then husFcγRIIb 
protein was purified by Ni-NTA agarose bead system. The IC-binding ability of 
husFcγRIIb was detected by ELISA. Furthermore, B cells were sorted by immune 
magnetic bead from human peripheral blood and challenged by different 
stimulators under the condition of husFcγRIIb or not for 10 d, then the 
concentration of IgM in supernatant was detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: The concentration of husFcγRIIb in the serum of SLE patients was lower 
than that in the controls (P<0.05). The recombinant husFcγRIIb protein was 
successfully expressed and purified with M(r); being 41 500. It could combine 
with IC and the absorption became higher with the increasing concentration of 
IC. After 10-day stimulation on the B cells, the titer of IgM between SPA and 
SPA+husFcγRIIb groups was not significantly different (P>0.05), and the titer 
was higher in SPA+anti-IgM group than SPA group (P<0.01). Interestingly, the 
titer of IgM in SPA+husFcγRIIb+anti-IgM group was lower than SPA+anti-IgM group 
(P<0.01), SPA group (P<0.01) and SPA+husFcγRIIb group (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: The concentration of husFcγRIIb in the serum of SLE patients is 
lower than that in the healthy controls. The recombinant husFcγRIIb protein can 
combine with IC and inhibit IgM antibody secretion by B cells.

PMID: 22980660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. BMC Biotechnol. 2007 Oct 3;7:64. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-7-64.

A systematic approach for testing expression of human full-length proteins in 
cell-free expression systems.

Langlais C(1), Guilleaume B, Wermke N, Scheuermann T, Ebert L, LaBaer J, Korn B.

Author information:
(1)MRC Toxicology Unit, Protein Profiling Group, Hodgkin Building, Lancaster 
Road, Leicester, LE1 9HN, UK. cl40@leicester.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The growing field of proteomics and systems biology is resulting in 
an ever increasing demand for purified recombinant proteins for structural and 
functional studies. Here, we show a systematic approach to successfully express 
a full-length protein of interest by using cell-free and cell-based expression 
systems.
RESULTS: In a pre-screen, we evaluated the expression of 960 human full-length 
open reading frames in Escherichia coli (in vivo and in vitro). After analysing 
the protein expression rate and solubility, we chose a subset of 87 plasmids 
yielding no protein product in E. coli in vivo. These targets were subjected to 
a more detailed analysis comparing a prokaryotic cell-free E. coli system with 
an eukaryotic wheat germ system. In addition, we determined the expression rate, 
yield and solubility of those proteins. After sequence optimisation for the E. 
coli in vitro system and generating linear templates for wheat germ expression, 
the success rate of cell-free protein expression reached 93%.
CONCLUSION: We have demonstrated that protein expression in cell-free systems is 
an appropriate technology for the successful expression of soluble full-length 
proteins. In our study, wheat germ expression using a two compartment system is 
the method of choice as it shows high solubility and high protein yield.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-7-64
PMCID: PMC2131746
PMID: 17915018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Sep 2. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.08.018. Online ahead of 
print.

Reprint of: A new tagged-TEV protease: Construction, optimisation of production, 
purification and test activity.

Miladi B(1), Bouallagui H, Dridi C, El Marjou A, Boeuf G, Di Martino P, Dufour 
F, Elm'selmi A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Ecole de Biologie Industrielle, 32 Bd du 
Port, Cergy 95094, France.

The Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) protease is frequently used in the cleavage of 
recombinant fusion proteins because of its efficiency and high specificity. In 
this work, we present a new recombinant form of TEV termed Streptag II-TEV for 
high-level production and purification of TEV protease from Escherichia coli and 
compare it to the hexahistidine (6xHis) tagged version of TEV. The effects of 
varying the host strain, the bacterial induction temperature (25, 30 and 37°C) 
and the IPTG inducer concentration on production and solubility of the two 
recombinant TEV proteases have been examined. Optimal Streptag II-TEV protein 
expression were obtained in the E. coli KRX strain under an induction 
temperature of 25°C in the presence of IPTG at 0.5mM. In these conditions, 
soluble Streptag II-TEV and 6xHis-TEV proteases accounted for about 25% and 18% 
of total soluble proteins, respectively. About 70% of Streptag II-TEV and 60% of 
6xHis-TEV were detected in the supernatant. Streptag II-TEV protease purifies to 
near homogeneity (approximately 99%) via a simple, single step Strep-Tactin 
chromatography purification protocol based on the presence of Streptag II. The 
higher production of Streptag II-TEV coupled to its purification and cleavage 
efficiencies make it an attractive alternate to 6xHis-TEV.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.08.018
PMID: 21889987


436. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jan;28(1):46-8.

[Preparation and identification of monoclonal antibody against human GCRG213].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu YQ(1), Wu BY, Wang GS, You WD, Wang WH, Wang MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, South Building, General Hospital of PLA, 
Beijing 100853, China. wuyq56@hotmail.com

AIM: To prepare and characterize the monoclonal antibody against human GCRG213.
METHODS: The HIS-GCRG213 fusion protein was expressed in E.coli. Mice were 
immunized with the purified HIS-GCRG213 protein. Hybridoma cell lines secreting 
monoclonal antibodies against GCRG213 were screened by regular cell fusion and 
subcloning approach. The titer and specificity of the antibody was characterized 
by ELISA and Western blot, respectively. The expression of GCRG213 was 
determined using immunohistochemistry technique on paraffin-embedded tissue 
sections from normal gastric mucosal tissues and advanced gastric cancer.
RESULTS: The HIS-GCRG213 fusion protein with relative molecular mass of 20 800 
was over expressed in E.coli. Two hybridoma cell lines which secreted monoclonal 
antibody specifically against human GCRG213 fusion protein were successfully 
obtained. The ascite titers of this monoclonal antibody reached 1:10(6);. 
Western blot analysis showed that the monoclonal antibody could bind to the 
recombinant HIS-GCRG213 protein specifically.The immunohistochemistry showed 
that GCRG213 were expressed higher in gastric cancer tissues than in normal 
ones.
CONCLUSION: The monoclonal antibody against human GCRG213 with high titer and 
specificity has been successfully prepared, which could be utilized as a useful 
reagent for further studying the biological function of the GCRG213.

PMID: 22230502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Protein Expr Purif. 2002 Aug;25(3):503-7. doi: 10.1016/s1046-5928(02)00024-4.

Removal of DnaK contamination during fusion protein purifications.

Rial DV(1), Ceccarelli EA.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Division, IBR, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones 
Científicas y Técnicas, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquímicas y Farmacéuticas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Suipacha 531, (S2002LRK) Rosario, Argentina.

The use of fusion proteins for recombinant protein expression in Escherichia 
coli has become popular because the carrier increases protein solubility, 
standardizes expression levels, and facilitates purification of the fusion 
products. However, we have observed that the peptide regions that fuse the 
carrier to the protein of interest bind E. coli Hsp70 molecular chaperones 
(DnaK) depending on their amino acid composition, resulting in an unwanted 
contamination during protein purification. Here we describe an approach that 
helps to circumvent this unwanted contamination. First, the appropriate amino 
acids surrounding and comprising the cloning site are chosen by using a software 
based on an algorithm already developed to decrease to a minimum the propensity 
of the fusion protein to bind DnaK. Second, DnaK contamination is significantly 
reduced by washing the fusion protein bound to the purification resin with MgATP 
plus soluble denatured E. coli proteins before elution. The approach can also be 
applied to eliminate other molecular chaperones.

DOI: 10.1016/s1046-5928(02)00024-4
PMID: 12182832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Oct;29(10):1079-81.

[Prokaryotic expression and immunogenicity analysis of phosphoglycerate kinase 1 
of Candida albicans].

[Article in Chinese]

He Z(1), Chen J, Ran X, Chen X, Bai Y, Xie X, Hou T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Bethune International Peace Hospital of 
PLA, Shijiazhuang 050082, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct prokaryotic expression plasmids of Candida albicans gene 
phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (pgk-1) and examine the immunogenicity of the 
recombinant protein.
METHODS: The full-length coding sequence of pgk-1 was amplified by PCR and 
cloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pET30a. The 6×His-tagged protein 
was induced by IPTG in E.coli BL-21(DE3) and the recombinant protein was 
identified by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The BALB/c mice were immunized with 
the purified recombinant protein to evaluate the antigenicity of the recombinant 
protein by ELISA.
RESULTS: The full-length pgk-1 gene was cloned from SC5314 genome and 
pET-30a-pgk-1 was successfully constructed. The recombinant protein PGK-1 was 
highly expressed in E.coli with a relative molecule mass of 54 810. ELISA 
indicated that the titer of the antibody was about 1:1024.
CONCLUSION: PGK-1 was successfully expressed by prokaryotic expression system 
and the recombinant protein showed favorable immunogenicity in mice.

PMID: 24103269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Feb;57(2):234-43. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.10.002. Epub 
2007 Oct 13.

Addition of a polypeptide stretch at the N-terminus improves the expression, 
stability and solubility of recombinant protein tyrosine phosphatases from 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Madan LL(1), Gopal B.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore 560 012, 
India.

The production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli involves substantial 
optimization in the size of the protein and over-expression strategies to avoid 
inclusion-body formation. Here we report our observations on this so-called 
construct dependence using the catalytic domains of five Drosophila melanogaster 
receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases as a model system. Five strains of E. 
coli as well as three variations in purification tags viz., poly-histidine 
peptide attachments at the N- and C-termini and a construct with 
Glutathione-S-transferase at the N-terminus were examined. In this study we 
observe that inclusion of a 45 residue stretch at the N-terminus was crucial for 
over-expression of the enzymes, influencing both the solubility and the 
stability of these recombinant proteins. While the addition of negatively 
charged residues in the N-terminal extension could partially rationalize the 
improvement in the solubility of these constructs, conventional parameters like 
the proportion of order promoting residues or aliphatic index did not correlate 
with the improved biochemical characteristics. These findings thus suggest the 
inclusion of additional parameters apart from rigid domain predictions to obtain 
domain constructs that are most likely to yield soluble protein upon expression 
in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.10.002
PMID: 18023205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;27(10):1114-6.

[Expression of aldolase of Toxoplasma gondii and preparation of the polyclonal 
antibodies against this protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin ZK(1), Deng ZJ, Zheng B.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, China.

AIM: To produce the aldolase protein and its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: Aldolase gene was obtained from cDNA library by PCR amplification and 
subcloned to vector pET30a. The recombinant protein aldolase-His(6); was 
expressed in E.coli upon IPTG induction and then purified with affinity 
chromatography. The purified protein mixed with adjuvant was used to immunize SD 
rats to produce the polyclonal antibodies.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid aldolase/pET30a was constructed successfully 
and expressed as a fusion protein aldolase-His(6);; Polyclonal antibody against 
aldolase-His(6); was obtained from rat, and antibody titer was 1:4 000.
CONCLUSION: The purified protein aldolase-His(6); and its polyclonal antibodies 
were obtained, which may provide the foundation for the further studies on the 
function of aldolase.

PMID: 21968314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Mar;24(3):243-6.

[Prokaryotic expression of human GITRaa27-165 and preparation of its polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Tong J(1), Wang SJ, Chen J, Mao CM, Yang YL, Yang M, Hu ZJ, Zhi DY, Xu HX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Laboratory Immunology, School of Medical 
Technology, Zhenjiang 212013, China.

AIM: To express and purify the extracellular region of human 
glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor (hGITR(aa27-165)), and to prepare 
and identify the polyclonal antibody (pAb) against this fusion protein.
METHODS: The 429 bp DNA sequence of hGITR(aa27-165) was obtained from pGEM 
T-hGITR by PCR and then it was inserted into pQE30 plasmid to construct the 
prokaryotic expression plasmid pQE30-hGITR(aa27-165). pQE30-hGITR(aa27-165) was 
transformed into E.coli. The target fusion protein was expressed with the 
induction of Isopropyl beta-D-1-thiogalacto- pyranoside (IPTG) and purified by 
Ni(2+)-NTA affinity chromatography column. The antiserum against hGITR(aa27-165) 
was obtained from the rabbits immunized with hGITR(aa27-165). The titer of pAb 
was detected by ELISA and the specificity of pAb was identified by Western blot.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression plasmid pQE30-GITR(aa27-165) was constructed 
successfully. The culture condition in which the target fusion protein was 
highly expressed was found out: the optimal concentration of IPTG was 0.5 
mmol/L, the culture temperature was 30 degree centigrade and the culture time 
was 6 h. The GITR(aa27-165) fusion protein was effectively expressed in E.coli 
as inclusion body. Soluble protein was obtained through denaturation and 
refolding procedure. The fusion protein was purified by Profinity IMAC 
Ni-Charged Resin affinity column with above 90% purity. The anti-GITR(aa27-165) 
pAb was prepared by immunizing the rabbits with the purified target fusion 
protein. ELISA showed the titer of pAb was 1:1.6 x 10(5). Western blot analysis 
confirmed anti-GITR(aa27-165) pAb was of good specificity.
CONCLUSION: The fusion protein hGITR(aa27-165) with high purity has been 
obtained and the anti-hGITR(aa27-165) pAb with high titer and good specificity 
has been prepared. Our study may be conductive to further research into the 
molecular mechanism of action between human GITR and GITRL.

PMID: 18328184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Mol Gen Mikrobiol Virusol. 2000;(4):3-7.

[Effective expression of fragments of a botulinum neurotoxin type A gene, coding 
for the L-chain and H-chain in E. coli, with formation of products causing 
protective immunity to administration of the toxin].

[Article in Russian]

Vertiev IuV(1), Zdanovskiĭ AG, Borinskaia SA, Martin T, Gening EL, Iankovskiĭ 
NK.

Author information:
(1)N. F. Gamaleya Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Russian Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Moscow, Russia.

Native Clostridium botulinum gene coding for type A neurotoxin has been used to 
construct recombinant derivatives coding separately for L and H polypeptide 
chains of the toxin. The gene derivatives have been cloned into an expression 
vector pET28b in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The recombinant L and H proteins seem 
to be the major individual proteins after IPTG induction of the recombinant 
cells. Each of the proteins has been accumulated only in inclusion bodies. The 
recombinant L chain (but not H chain) has been successfully resolubilized. Each 
of the proteins contains six His residues on the N terminus which allows 
purification on Ni-agarose columns with high yield. No toxic effect has been 
observed for both L and H chains after injection of 10 micrograms of recombinant 
preparations purified from inclusion bodies. Moreover, the injection resulted in 
an increase in the titer of specific antibodies which protected mice from 1 DLM 
of type A native botulinum neurotoxin. Hence, the recombinant neurotoxin protein 
derivatives which are present in E. coli inclusion bodies can be a source of 
material for producing diagnostic and therapeutic sera against type A botulinum 
neurotoxin.

PMID: 11186457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 Oct;31(2):271-5. doi: 10.1016/s1046-5928(03)00184-0.

Large scale production of biologically active Escherichia coli glutamyl-tRNA 
reductase from inclusion bodies.

Schauer S(1), Lüer C, Moser J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Technical University Braunschweig, 
Spielmannstrasse 7, D-38106 Braunschweig, Germany.

Glutamyl-tRNA reductase catalyzes the initial step of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis 
in plants and prokaryotes. Recombinant Escherichia coli glutamyl-tRNA reductase 
was purified to apparent homogeneity from an overproducing E. coli strain by a 
two-step procedure yielding 5.6 mg of enzyme per gram of wet cells with a 
specific activity of 0.47 micromol min(-1)mg(-1). After recombinant production, 
denatured glutamyl-tRNA reductase from inclusion bodies was renatured by an 
on-column refolding procedure. Residual protein aggregates were removed using 
Superdex 200 gel-filtration chromatography. Solubility, specific activity, and 
long-term storage properties were improved compared to previous protocols. 
Obtained enzyme amounts of high purity now allow the research on the recognition 
mechanism of tRNAGlu and high-throughput inhibitor screening.

DOI: 10.1016/s1046-5928(03)00184-0
PMID: 14550647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Oct;25(10):920-3.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of human spermine 
oxidase].

[Article in Chinese]

Cao CY(1), Han Y, Ren YS, Wang YL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Medical College, Three Gorges University, 
Yichang 443002, China. 407788923@qq.com

AIM: To prepare recombinant human spermine oxidase (SMO) and polyclonal antibody 
against human SMO by gene recombination techniques.
METHODS: Human SMO cDNA was amplified from total RNA of A549 cells through 
reverse transcription PCR. The cDNA was then cloned into pET-15b to construct 
SMO prokaryotic expression vector. After transforming, the vector was induced to 
express recombinant SMO by IPTG in E.coli BL21 (DE(3)). Recombinant SMO was 
purified by Ni-NTA resin under denaturing condition and then was dialyzed to 
renature. The enzyme activity of recombinant SMO was analyzed by chemical 
fluorescent method. SMO polyclonal antibody was prepared by using recombinant 
human SMO protein purified by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as antigen to 
inoculate rabbit intradermally. The titer and specificity of anti-sera were 
determined by ELISA, Western blot and Immune Cell Chemistry.
RESULTS: Purified and dialyzed recombinant human SMO has the specificity of 
oxidizing the spermine. The polyclonal antibody has high titer and specificity 
against human SMO.
CONCLUSION: This research established a method for prokaryotic expression, 
purification and polyclonal antibody preparation of human SMO. The method lays a 
foundation for the future functional research of SMO.

PMID: 19811743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Sep;21(5):533-7.

[Construction and prokaryotic expression of recombinant gene c-Abeta-c and the 
immunogenicity analysis of the fusion protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng GF(1), Hu HT, Li YY, Han H, Wang QY, Yang GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Medical College, Xi'an Jiaotong University, 
Xi'an 710061, China. fenggaifeng@163.com

AIM: To construct the recombinant prokaryotic expression plasmid 
pHGhis/c-Abeta-c and evaluate the immunogenicity of the fusion protein expressed 
in E.coli DH5 alpha.
METHODS: The gene fragments of HBc1-71, HBc88-144 and Abeta(1-42) were amplified 
by PCR. Then the Abeta(1-42) gene was inserted between HBc1-71 and HBc88-144, 
yielding the recombinant gene c-Abeta-c. c-Abeta-c gene was cloned into pGEMEX 
and then subcloned into pHGhis plasmids. c-Abeta-c fusion protein expression in 
transformed E.coli DH5alpha was induced at 42degrees Celsius. The expressed 
fusion protein was analyzed by SDS-PAGE. Six BALB/c mice recieved 
intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) of c-Abeta-c fusion protein purified by 
saturated ammonium sulfate. The anti-Abeta antibody was detected by indirect 
ELISA.
RESULTS: The recombinant gene was confirmed by restriction enzyme digestion and 
DNA sequencing. After temperature induction, fusion protein was expressed and 
existed in the sediment of the bacterial lysate. The expression level was 16% of 
all the proteins in the sediment. After 3 times of immunization, the titer of 
anti-Abeta antibody in sera of BALB/c mice reached up to 1:16,000, while the 
anti-HBc antibody was undetectable.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant c-Abeta-c gene can be expressed in E.coli DH5 alpha. The 
expressed protein exists in the sediment of the bacterial lysate and has a 
strong immunogenicity. This study lays the foundation for the experimental 
animal study of Alzheimer's disease genetic engineering vaccine.

PMID: 16143050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Biotechnol Prog. 2014 May-Jun;30(3):744-8. doi: 10.1002/btpr.1879. Epub 2014 Mar 
3.

Effect of the DnaK chaperone on the conformational quality of JCV VP1 virus-like 
particles produced in Escherichia coli.

Saccardo P(1), Rodríguez-Carmona E, Villaverde A, Ferrer-Miralles N.

Author information:
(1)Inst. de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina and Dept. de Genètica i de 
Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona and CIBER en Bioingeniería, 
Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Bellaterra, Barcelona, 08193, Spain.

Protein nanoparticles such as virus-like particles (VLPs) can be obtained by 
recombinant protein production of viral capsid proteins and spontaneous 
self-assembling in cell factories. Contrarily to infective viral particles, VLPs 
lack infective viral genome while retaining important viral properties like 
cellular tropism and intracellular delivery of internalized molecules. These 
properties make VLPs promising and fully biocompatible nanovehicles for drug 
delivery. VLPs of human JC virus (hJCV) VP1 capsid protein produced in 
Escherichia coli elicit variable hemagglutination properties when incubated at 
different NaCl concentrations and pH conditions, being optimal at 200 mM NaCl 
and at pH range between 5.8 and 7.5. In addition, the presence or absence of 
chaperone DnaK in E. coli cells influence the solubility of recombinant VP1 and 
the conformational quality of this protein in the VLPs. The hemagglutination 
ability of hJCV VP1 VLPs contained in E. coli cell extracts can be modulated by 
buffer composition in the hemagglutination assay. It has been also determined 
that the production of recombinant hJCV VP1 in E. coli is favored by the absence 
of chaperone DnaK as observed by Western Blot analysis in different E. coli 
genetic backgrounds, indicating a proteolysis targeting role for DnaK. However, 
solubility is highly compromised in a DnaK(-) E. coli strain suggesting an 
important role of this chaperone in reduction of protein aggregates. Finally, 
hemagglutination efficiency of recombinant VP1 is directly related to the 
presence of DnaK in the producing cells.

© 2014 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.1879
PMID: 24574306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2007 Jul;20(7):327-37. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzm024. Epub 
2007 Jun 20.

Development of a screening platform for directed evolution using the reef coral 
fluorescent protein ZsGreen as a solubility reporter.

Heddle C(1), Mazaleyrat SL.

Author information:
(1)Global Protein Science and Supply, AstraZeneca R&D, Södertälje, Sweden. 
catherine.heddle@astrazeneca.com

Soluble proteins, with high expression levels, are preferred candidates for 
structural and functional studies. In cases of low expression, aggregation or 
inclusion body formation, time-consuming searches for optimal expression or 
refolding conditions are required. We have developed a high-throughput 
solubility engineering and screening platform for proteins that are expressed in 
an insoluble form in Escherichia coli with the aim of obtaining a broad spectrum 
of best hits with increased solubility in difficult to express target proteins. 
This process has been developed using error-prone PCR to introduce random base 
changes in genes of interest. Expression of mutated proteins in fusion with the 
reef coral fluorescent protein ZsGreen as a solubility marker has enabled the 
selection of more soluble variants. We have used a colony picker to achieve 
high-throughput selection of E.coli expressing more soluble target 
protein-ZsGreen fusions, with increased fluorescence. The whole process enables 
us to complete one round of mutation, screening and analysis of 20,000 potential 
soluble clones within approximately 8 weeks. We describe the development of the 
methods using different model proteins and show one example, the kinase domain 
from the human EphB2 receptor, as a successful application of the whole 
platform.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzm024
PMID: 17584755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;26(6):569-71.

[Expression of mouse PDL-1 extracellular region and its antibody preparation].

[Article in Chinese]

Qin XL(1), Liu CQ, Yang F, Lu BR, Li B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Three Gorges University, Yichang 443002, 
China. qinxiaolin200810@163.com

AIM: To prepare mouse PDL-1 membrane extracellular region (mPDL-1) and its 
antibody for further study of the biological activity of PDL-1.
METHODS: The extracellular region gene fragment of PDL-1 was amplified by RT-PCR 
and then was cloned into pET28a(+) prokaryotic expressing vector. The 
recombinant protein mPDL-1 was induced by IPTG in E.coli BL21 (DE3) and the 
expressed protein was detected by Western blot. The purified protein was used to 
immune rabbits to prepare polyclonal antibody and the specificity and the titer 
of the antibody were detected with ELISA, immunofluorescence assay and FCM.
RESULTS: The plasmid pET28a(+)/mPDL-1 was successfully constructed and mPDL-1 
protein was expressed in E.coli BL21(DE3) with high efficiency. Western blot 
showed that the recombinant protein was characterized with His antibody. Rabbit 
immunized with the purified protein produced high titer of antibody. 
Immunofluorescence assay displayed that the PDL-1 protein highly expressed in 
B16 melanoma cells was specifically combined with the antibody.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant mPDL-1 is expressed and purified with high antigenicity. 
The preparation of recombinant mPDL-1 and its polyclonal antibody lay the 
foundation for further research on mPDL-1 bioactivities.

PMID: 20487650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Oct;25(10):924-6.

[Clone, prokaryotic expression and preparation of polyclonal antibody of hCD59].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang J(1), Sun P, Zhang XL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, State Key Laboratory of Virology, Wuhan University 
School of Medicine, Wuhan 430071, China. tjandbetty@sina.com

AIM: To construct full length hCD59 eukaryotic and extracellular domain of hCD59 
(hsCD59)prokaryotic expression vectors and prepare polyclonal antibody of hCD59.
METHODS: cDNA fragments encoding hCD59 and hsCD59 were amplified from human 
PBMCs by RT-PCR and cloned into the eukaryotic vector pVAX-1 and prokaryotic 
vector pGEX-KG, respectively. The recombinant fusion protein GST-hsCD59 was 
expressed in E.coil BL21 induced by IPTG. Then the fusion protein was purified 
and identified. Polyclonal antibody against hCD59 was prepared by immunizing 
rabbit with pVAX-1-hCD59 and boosting with GST-hsCD59 fusion protein, and the 
titer was identified.
RESULTS: The recombinant eukaryotic vector pVAX-1-hCD59 and prokaryotic vector 
pGEX-KG-hsCD59 were successfully constructed. The GST-hsCD59 fusion protein was 
over-expressed in E.coli BL21 and the relative molecular mass (M(r)) of the 
expression product was identical with predicted size. The titer of the 
anti-hCD59 serum was 1:3 200.
CONCLUSION: We got the recombinant eukaryotic vector pVAX-1-hCD59, prokaryotic 
vector pGEX-KG-hsCD59 and rabbit anti-hCD59 polyclonal antibody 
successfully.These work would be helpful for the further study of the biological 
function of human CD59.

PMID: 19811744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Jun;27(6):641-3.

[Preparation of rabbit anti-recombinant human calreticulin antibody and its 
characterization].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang XL(1), Liang XD, Xu RH, Chen ZQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Dongguan 
523808, China.

AIM: To prepare the rabbit anti-recombinant human calreticulin (hCRT) antibody 
and its characterization.
METHODS: The gene coding for hCRT was amplified by PCR and cloned into 
prokaryotic expression vector pET32a. Then the recombinant plasmid pET32a/hCRT 
was transformed into E.coli BL21 (DE3) and expressed under IPTG induction. The 
recombinant hCRT was purified through Ni(2+) -NT agarose gel column and the 
purified hCRT used as immunogen to immunize the rabbit.The titer and specificity 
of the rabbit anti-hCRT antibody were analyzed by ELISA, Western blot and 
immunohistochemical staining, respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant hCRT was successfully expressed and purified, and the 
polyclonal anit-hCRT antibody was successfully prepared. The titer of the 
antiserum was 1:51 200 by ELISA. Western blot analysis showed that the antibody 
reacted specifically to hCRT. Immunohistochemical staining detection manifested 
the antibody could recognize the native hCRT.
CONCLUSION: The rabbit anti-hCRT antibody with high titer and specificity has 
been successfully prepared, which lays the foundation for further research on 
detection of hCRT and its clinical application.

PMID: 21651865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Microb Cell Fact. 2010 Nov 23;9:92. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-92.

Dissection of an old protein reveals a novel application: domain D of 
Staphylococcus aureus Protein A (sSpAD) as a secretion--tag.

Heel T(1), Paal M, Schneider R, Auer B.

Author information:
(1)Austrian Center of Industrial Biotechnology (ACIB), TU Graz, Petersgasse 14, 
A-8010 Graz, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Escherichia coli as a frequently utilized host organism for 
recombinant protein production offers different cellular locations with distinct 
qualities. The periplasmic space is often favored for the production of complex 
proteins due to enhanced disulfide bond formation, increased target product 
stability and simplified downstream processing. To direct proteins to the 
periplasmic space rather small proteinaceus tags that can be used for affinity 
purification would be advantageous.
RESULTS: We discovered that domain D of the Staphylococcus aureus protein A was 
sufficient for the secretion of various target proteins into the periplasmic 
space of E. coli. Our experiments indicated the Sec pathway as the mode of 
secretion, although N-terminal processing was not observed. Furthermore, the 
solubility of recombinant fusion proteins was improved for proteins prone to 
aggregation.The tag allowed a straightforward affinity purification of 
recombinant fusion protein via an IgG column, which was exemplified for the 
target protein human superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD).
CONCLUSIONS: In this work we present a new secretion tag that combines several 
advantages for the production of recombinant proteins in E. coli. Domain D of S. 
aureus protein A protects the protein of interest against N-terminal 
degradation, increases target protein solubility and enables a straight-forward 
purification of the recombinant protein using of IgG columns.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-92
PMCID: PMC3001420
PMID: 21092285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2007 Oct;47(5):790-4.

[Cloning and expression of F18 fimbrial operon gene clusters from 
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli and their bioactivity].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang JJ(1), Zhu GQ.

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China.

The fed operon gene clusters with each size of 5.6kb, encoding the F18ab or 
F18ac fimbriae, was amplified respectively by high fidelity PCR using the 
genomic DNA templates from F18 fimbriae E. coli strains 107/86 or 2134P. The PCR 
products with the restriction enzyme sites at each end were digested and then 
cloned into the vector pET-22b (+), the recombinant plamids with the inserts of 
both type of fed gene clusters were constructed and screened, further confirmed 
by the means of combination with restriction endonuclease analysis and 
sequencing. The both types of fimbriae F18ab and F18ac were expressed 
efficiently in the E. coli BL21 (DE3) after proper concentration of IPTG 
induction. Expressed fimbriae were revealed and confirmed by transmissible 
electromicroscope observation. The both fimbriae F18ab and F18ac were isolated 
and purified from the recombinant E. coli, and only a single major band of 
protein with size of approximately 15kDa was visualized in Coomassie 
blue-stained gels after SDS-PAGE. The rabbits sera with high titer of anti-F18 
fimbriae were detected after being immunized with the purified F18ab or F18ac 
fimbriae. The results of combination of agglutination assay with Western 
blotting showed that the sera directed against both fimbriae F18ab and F18ac 
reacted positively with the F18 fimbriae from both wild E. coli 107/86 and 
2134P. Small intestine epithelial cells with F18 fimbriae receptors, which were 
from post-weaning piglets with the genotypes of FUT1 gene both M307(GG) and 
M307(AG), were prepared and tested for the adherence of E. coli expressing F18 
fimbriae under the microscopic examination. Adhesion and adhesion inhibition 
test showed both of the recombinant E. coli expressing F18ab or F18ac fimbriae 
respectively could adhere to the jejunal epithelial cells in vitro as E. coli 
107/86 and 2134p did. The both of anti-sera directed against fimbriae F18ab or 
F18ac respectively can efficiently inhibit the fimbriae-mediated post-weaning 
piglet jejunal epithelial cells adherence to both the recombinant E. coli 
(expressing F18ab or F18ac fimbriae) and wild type E. coli (107/86 and 2134P).

PMID: 18062250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Jul;21(4):463-5, 469.

[Prokaryotic expression of human cTnI and preparation of rabbit anti-hcTnI 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu X(1), Yang N, Tu HB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Guangzhou Medical College, 
Guangzhou 510182, China. xuxia503@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To construct the prokaryotic expression vector pET-21a(+)-hcTnI and prepare 
the rabbit anti-hcTnI antibody using hcTnI expressed in E.coli as immunogen.
METHODS: The full-length gene encoding human cardiac troponin I (hcTnI) was 
synthesized chemically and inserted into expression plasmid pET-21a(+) to 
construct recombinant plasmid pET-21a(+)-hcTnI. The recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into E.coli BL21 (DE3) plysS which then expressed hcTnI under IPTG 
induction. The immunological activity of the expressed hcTnI was analyzed by 
Western blot. A rabbit was immunized with purified hcTnI to prepare anti-hcTnI 
antibody and the Ab's properties were identified.
RESULTS: Human cTnI gene was synthesized and confirmed by DNA sequencing. 
Positive recombinant clones were identified by restriction enzyme digestion 
analysis and DNA sequencing. After induction with IPTG, hcTnI with M(r) being 24 
000 was expressed in E.coli BL21 (DE3) plysS, and the expressed hcTnI accounted 
for 28% of total bacterial protein. Western blot analysis showed that the hcTnI 
protein could be recognized by an anti-hcTnI antibody. Rabbit polyclonal 
antibody with a good specificity was obtained. The titer of the polyclonal 
antibody was 3x10(-4).
CONCLUSION: The recombinant expression plasmid of hcTnI was constructed 
successfully and expressed in E.coli. The prepared rabbit anti-hcTnI antibody 
had a high titer and specificity.

PMID: 15989792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun. 2011 Sep 1;67(Pt 9):1027-31. 
doi: 10.1107/S1744309111032143. Epub 2011 Aug 31.

Wheat germ cell-free expression system as a pathway to improve protein yield and 
solubility for the SSGCID pipeline.

Guild K(1), Zhang Y, Stacy R, Mundt E, Benbow S, Green A, Myler PJ.

Author information:
(1)Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, USA.

Recombinant expression of proteins of interest in Escherichia coli is an 
important tool in the determination of protein structure. However, lack of 
expression and insolubility remain significant challenges to the expression and 
crystallization of these proteins. The SSGCID program uses a wheat germ 
cell-free expression system as a rescue pathway for proteins that are either not 
expressed or insoluble when produced in E. coli. Testing indicates that the 
system is a valuable tool for these protein targets. Further increases in 
solubility were obtained by the addition of the NVoy polymer reagent to the 
reaction mixture. These data indicate that this eukaryotic cell-free expression 
system has a high success rate and that the addition of specific reagents can 
increase the yield of soluble protein.

DOI: 10.1107/S1744309111032143
PMCID: PMC3169397
PMID: 21904045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2013 Oct;31(5):372-5.

[Cloning, expression of TSO45W-4B gene from Taenia solium and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou BY, Zhou L, Liu MC, Liu H, Zhang X.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express TSO45W-4B gene of Taenia solium, and prepare the 
rabbit antiserum against the recombinant protein TSO45W-4B.
METHODS: The gene encoding TSO45W-4B antigen was synthesized and cloned into the 
expression vector pGEX-1lambdaT. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into 
Escherichia coli ArcticExpress (DE3), and followed by the expression of the 
protein induced by IPTG. The recombinant protein was purified by GST affinity 
chromatography and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. The rabbits were immunized with the 
purified recombinant protein. The titer of the antibody against TSO45W-4B was 
detected by ELISA. The specificity of anti-TSO45W-4B antibody was determined by 
Western blotting.
RESULTS: It was demonstrated that TSO45W-4B gene (351 bp) was synthesized. The 
gene was inserted into pGEX-1lambdaT and confirmed by restriction enzyme 
digestion and DNA sequencing. SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the relative 
molecular mass (M(r)) of the expressed recombinant protein was approximately 40 
000. The purity of the recombinant protein with an affinity chromatography 
column was about 90%. The titer of the antibody against TSO45W-4B was 1: 512 
000. The recombinant protein reacted with the anti-TSO45W-4B antibody by Western 
blotting.
CONCLUSION: The TSO45W-4B gene of Taenia solium is efficiently expressed in E. 
coli. The recombinant protein TSO45W-4B and its rabbit antiserum are 
successfully prepared.

PMID: 24818393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Mol Biol Rep. 2010 Apr;37(4):1781-6. doi: 10.1007/s11033-009-9609-0. Epub 2009 
Jul 8.

Expression and characterization of Momordica Chanrantia anti-hyperglycaemic 
peptide in Escherichia coli.

Liu SX(1), Fu ZP, Mu RM, Hu ZB, Wang FJ, Wang XR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Science & Engineering, Urban Eco-Planning & 
Design Researching Center, Fudan University, 200433, Shanghai, People's Republic 
of China. liusixiu@gmail.com

A nucleic acid sequence MC, encoding Momordica Chanrantia anti-hyperglycaemic 
peptide MC6 (accession: AAX06814) synthesized according to Escherichia coli 
preferred codons, was cloned and expressed in E. coli. Recombinant protein 
pQE8-MC (about 3.5 kDa) was purified and analyzed by 20% SDS-PAGE and western 
blot. It revealed that the expressed pQE8-MC had good solubility in aqueous 
media. An HPLC assay was used to confirm the expression of pQE8-MC. Subsequent 
pharmacological activity assay revealed a significant hypoglycemic effect of low 
dose treatments of pQE8-MC on male kunming mice. Four hours after an intravenous 
tail injection, the blood sugar levels of mice treated with pQE8-MC saline 
solution A3 (1 mg/kg BW) decreased greatly (P < 0.01) relative to the levels of 
a control group. This suggests that pQE8-MC, expressed in bioengineered E. coli, 
has a similar hypoglycemic function to the natural protein MC6 from M. 
Chanrantia. These results reveal the possibility of using bio-engineered 
bacteria as an anti-diabetic agent.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-009-9609-0
PMID: 19585270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Oct;23(10):950-2.

[Recombinant expression of human fibrogenic factors and preparation of 
polyclonal antibodies].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen XH(1), Cai GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China. cxh01@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn

AIM: To express the recombinant proteins of human fibrogenic factors and prepare 
the polyclonal antibodies of rabbit-anti-human fibrogenic factors.
METHODS: The human fibrogenic factors were variant splicing forms of one gene. 
Their consensus sequence (ChS) was cloned into plasmid pQE30 to construct 
recombinant prokaryotic expression system. The recombinant expression vectors 
were transformed into E.coli M15, and then the expression vectors were induced 
by IPTG and many insoluble inclusion body proteins was obtained. The obtained 
proteins were used to immunize rabbits to obtain polyclonal antiserum with high 
titer and specificity. The eukaryotic expression of the recombinants of human 
fibrogenic factors was detected by Western blot.
RESULTS: The insoluble inclusion body proteins were also used to prepare 
polyclonal antibodies with high titer and specificity.
CONCLUSION: The expression of the recombinant proteins of human fibrogenic 
factors and the preparation of polyclonal antiserum provide a useful tool for 
further study of the expression and function of human fibrogenic factors.

PMID: 17908507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Aug;28(8):844-6.

[Prokaryotic expression of Drosophila selenoprotein D-SelK and preparation of 
polyclonal antibody to D-SelK].

[Article in Chinese]

Li QJ(1), Cui J, Meng XJ, Chen CL, Ben SB.

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science, Shenyang Agriculture University, Shenyang, China. 
qijiu_li@163.com

AIM: To clone and encode Drosophila selenoprotein D-SelK structure gene, express 
it in E.coli efficiently, and after purification, to generate its antibody in 
rabbits.
METHODS: D-SelK gene segment amplified from pGM-T-D-SelK plasmid by PCR was 
inserted into pGEX-6p-1 to construct recombinant plasmid pGEX-6p-1-D-SelK. The 
recombinant plasmid was transfected into E.coli BL21(DE3) to express the 
recombinant protein D-SelK in E.coli under IPTG induction. The protein was 
purified by denaturation and electrophoresis, and then identified by SDS-PAGE 
and Western blotting. Polyclonal antibody to D-SelK was obtained by immunizing 
rabbits with the protein. Quality and quantity of the antibody was examined.
RESULTS: D-SelK gene segment was successfully inserted into pGEX-6p-1 and the 
positive clones of the recombinant plasmid was identified by PCR screening and 
restriction endonuclease analysis. The target protein was effectively expressed 
in E.coli by the IPTG induction. Through immunizing rabbits with the purified 
target protein, we obtained the specific antibodies to D-SelK, the titer of 
which was more than 1:51 200. The polyclonal antibody had a good specificity to 
D-SelK.
CONCLUSION: D-SelK recombinant protein and rabbit anti-D-SelK polyclonal 
antibody with high specificity were obtained, which provides good tools for 
further research on the functional characterization of D-SelK.

PMID: 22863593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;29(4):414-7.

[Cloning and expression of Neisserial surface protein A gene and its applicalion 
in detection of serum specific antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen H(1), Fang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Key Labaratory of Cell Biology, Ministry of 
Public Health, Key Labaratory of Medical Cell Biology, Ministry of Education, 
China Medical University, Shenyang 110001, China. lnfsch@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To construct recombinant protein of Neisserial surface protein A 
(NspA) and determine the anti-NspA antibody levels using it as antigen in 
patients at the recovery stage of Neisseria meningitides, so as to explore the 
possibility of using NspA protein as the antigen for designing a novel vaccine 
for epidemic Neisseria meningitides.
METHODS: NspA gene was cloned from the isolated pathogen of patients with 
Neisseria meningitides to construct the prokaryotic expression vector. NspA 
protein was expressed in the form of soluble protein in E.coli and purified by 
GSTrap FF affinity chromatography. The antibody titers of recovery-stage 
patients with Neisseria meningitides were determined using the purified 
recombinant NspA.
RESULTS: Functional NspA was successfully expressed with Mr; being 44 000. The 
purified NspA had a good biological function. Antibodies against NspA could be 
detected in the sera of patients at the recovery stage of Neisseria meningitides 
using NspA protein. Positive rate reached 90% when titer was 1:40.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant NspA protein was expressed successfully and it could be 
used to detect the anti-NspA antibodies in the sera of patients with Neisseria 
meningitides at recovery stage.

PMID: 23643173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Jun;35(2):293-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.02.018.

In vivo increase of solubility of overexpressed Hha protein by tandem expression 
with interacting protein H-NS.

Pons JI(1), Rodríguez S, Madrid C, Juárez A, Nieto JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biology, University of Barcelona, 
Avda. Diagonal, 645, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.

Gene cloning in appropriate vectors followed by protein overexpression in 
Escherichia coli is the common means for protein purification. This approach has 
many advantages but also some drawbacks; one of these is that many proteins fail 
to achieve a soluble conformation when overexpressed in E. coli. Hha protein 
belongs to a family of nucleoid-associated proteins functionally related to the 
H-NS family of proteins. Hha-like proteins and H-NS-like proteins are able to 
semidirectly bind to each other. We show in this work that overexpressed Hha or 
HisHha protein (a functional derivative of Hha containing a 6x His tag at the 
amino end) from a T7-polymerase promoter in BL21 DE3 E. coli strains results in 
the vast majority of the protein accumulated in insoluble aggregates (inclusion 
bodies). We also show that tandem overexpression of HisHha and H-NS increases 
the solubility of HisHha and prevents the formation of inclusion bodies. Single 
amino acid substitutions in the HisHha protein, which impair interaction with 
H-NS, render insoluble protein even when tandem-expressed with H-NS, tandem 
expression of an insoluble protein and an interacting partner is an experimental 
strategy which could be useful to increase the solubility of other overexpressed 
proteins in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.02.018
PMID: 15135405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Feb;23(2):110-2.

[Prokaryotic expression and characterization of N-terminal truncated 
glycoprotein gp85 of Epstein-Barr virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Tu XD(1), Wu YS, Qiu LX, Lian YZ, Cheng F, Lan FH, Zhu ZY.

Author information:
(1)Depertment of Laboratory Medicine, Fuzhou Dongfang Hospital, Fuzhou 350025, 
China. tuxdmed@126.com

AIM: To construct a prokaryotic recombinant vector of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) 
membrane protein gp85, to express the protein in E.coli and characterize the 
antigenicity of this non-glycosylated protein.
METHODS: The BXLF2 gene coding 5'-terminal truncated of EBV gp85 was amplified 
from the EBV strain B95-8 cell line with specific primers. After identification 
by the restriction digestion with Hind III and Xho I, the PCR product was 
inserted into the prokaryotic expression plasmid pGEX-5T and confirmed by 
sequencing. The constructed prokaryotic expression vector pGEX5T-85N was 
transformed into the competent E.coli BL21. The expressed recombinant protein 
gp85N was purified by affinity chromatography, characterized by Western blot, 
and used immunize BALB/c mice. The titer of antiserum from the immunized mice 
was detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: Sequencing analysis revealed that the obtained truncated BXLF2 gene was 
identical to that published in GenBank and successfully cloned into pGEX-5T. 
SDS-PAGE showed that the expressed recombinant protein was partially soluble 
with a relative molecular mass of 45,000. ELISA results indicated that the 
expressed gp85N was recognized by that the anti-gp85 mAb and contiserum with 
high titer was obtained from the immunized mice.
CONCLUSION: The obtained recombinant gp85N with an excellent antigenicity should 
provide preliminary data for characterization of the antibody produced by the 
immunized mice.

PMID: 17286900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Jun;22(3):575-9.

[Production of polyclonal antibody against HBD-2 by immunization with 
recombinant GST-HBD-2 fusion protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang G(1), Feng Y, Wu Q, Yan R, Li X, Wang B, Huang N.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit of Infection & Immunity, West China Medical Center, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu 610041, China.

For the purpose of detecting the HBD-2 expression at protein level, the 
recombinant prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-1lambdaT-HBD-2 was constructed 
and the E. coli-based product of GST-HBD-2 fusion protein was prepared. When 
rabbit was immunized with the fusion protein, the anti-serum against HBD-2 was 
produced. After caprylic acid and ammonium sulfate precipitation, high titer of 
specific polyclonal antibody against HBD-2, which was detected by ELISA and 
Western blot, was obtained. This result suggests that recombinant peptide fusion 
protein could be used instead of the conjugate of peptide-albumin or 
peptide-thyroid globulin to produce antibody. The obtained antibodies could be 
used for revealing the tissue distribution of HBD-2 and the regulation of its 
gene expression.

PMID: 16013263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Feb;28(2):117-9.

[Expression, purification and protective antigen analysis of cell wall protein 
MRP of Streptococcus suis type 2].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang PP(1), Pian YY, Yuan Y, Zheng YL, Jiang YQ, Xiong ZY.

Author information:
(1)Sports School, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, China.

AIM: To amplify the mrp gene of Streptococcus suis type 2 05ZYH33, express it in 
E.coli BL21 in order to acquire high purity recombinant protein MRP, then 
evaluate the protective antigen of recombinant protein MRP.
METHODS: Using PCR technology to obtain the product of mrp gene of 05ZYH33, and 
then cloned it into the expression vector pET28a(+). The recombinant protein was 
purified by affinity chromatography, later immunized New Zealand rabbit to gain 
anti-serum, then test the anti-serum titer by ELISA. The opsonophagocytic 
killing test demonstrated the abilities of protective antigen of MRP.
RESULTS: The truncated of MRP recombinant protein in E.coli BL21 expressed by 
inclusion bodies, and purified it in high purity. After immunoprotection, the 
survival condition of CD-1 was significantly elevated. The survival rate of 
wild-type strain 05ZYH33 in blood was apparently decreased after anti-serum 
opsonophagocyticed, but the mutant delta; MRP showed no differences.
CONCLUSION: MRP represent an important protective antigen activity.

PMID: 22304764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Protein Expr Purif. 2002 Feb;24(1):90-8. doi: 10.1006/prep.2001.1555.

Using secretion to solve a solubility problem: high-yield expression in 
Escherichia coli and purification of the bacterial glycoamidase PNGase F.

Loo T(1), Patchett ML, Norris GE, Lott JS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Massey University, Private Bag 11-222, 
Palmerston North, New Zealand.

PNGase F is a widely used deglycosidase, secreted in small amounts by the 
gram-negative bacterium Flavobacterium meningosepticum. We have designed a T7 
promoter-based Escherichia coli expression system to provide a high-yield source 
of recombinant enzyme. When expressed intracellularly, the enzyme was produced 
in a largely insoluble state. However, when expressed as a fusion with the 
leader sequence from the ompA gene, hexahistidine-tagged PNGase F was 
efficiently processed and exported to the E. coli periplasm. Single-step 
purification using immobilized metal affinity chromatography yielded 8 mg of 
pure enzyme per liter of culture, which is fully active on a range of protein 
and peptide substrates.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1006/prep.2001.1555
PMID: 11812228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2005 May;34(3):207-11, 216.

[Cloning and expression of luffin-a gene from the seeds of Luffa cylindrical].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu XR(1), Zhan JB, Xia Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310006, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone luffin-a cDNA from the seeds of Luffa cylindrical, and to 
obtain bioactive recombinant luffin-a protein using the expression vector 
pET-44a (+) in E. coli.
METHODS: The cDNA sequence encoding luffin-a was cloned from the fresh seeds of 
Luffa cylindrical by RT-PCR. The target DNA fragments were sequenced after T-A 
cloning. The luffin-a expression plasmid was constructed by inserting the 
luffin-a cDNA fragment into vector pET-44a (+). Luffin-a was expressed in E. 
coli by addition of IPTG into final concentration 1.0 mmol/L. The recombinant 
luffin-a was identified by SDS-PAGE. The biological activity of luffin-a protein 
was evaluated by using the MTT assay in HepG2 cells following fluid-phase 
endocytosis.
RESULTS: In comparison with the reported luffin-a, the homology of nucleotide 
sequence of the cloned luffin-a gene was 99.73%, while their amino acid 
sequences were identical. The solubility of recombinant protein was analyzed by 
SDS-PAGE, and the luffin-a was mainly produced in inclusion bodies. The 
recombinant luffin-a, renatured by dialysis of the denatured products, showed a 
similar cytotoxicity to ricin A chain.
CONCLUSION: The cDNA of luffin-a has been successfully cloned. The recombinant 
luffin-a protein expressed by E. coli is bioactive.

PMID: 15940785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Aug;31(8):1120-3.

[Preparation and application of polyclonal antibody against Ras-related C3 
botulinum toxin substrate 1].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L(1), Hao L(2), Zuo W(2), Ma W(2), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Graduate, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230032; Department of 
Antibody Engineering, Beijing Proteome Research Center, State Key Laboratory of 
Proteomics, Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Academy of Military 
Medicine, Beijing 102206, China.
(2)Department of Antibody Engineering, Beijing Proteome Research Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Academy 
of Military Medicine, Beijing 102206, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare rabbit polyclonal antibody (pAb) against Ras-related C3 
botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) and identify the functions of the antibody.
METHODS: The Rac1 fragment was amplified from cDNA of human cervical cancer HeLa 
cells, and then inserted into the vector pET-32a to construct the recombinant 
plasmid pET-32a-Rac1. The recombinant protein Rac1 was fused with His-tag and 
the fusion protein His-Rac1 was expressed in E.coli expression system. 
Thereafter, His-tagged Rac1 was purified to immunize rabbits as immunogen. The 
titer and specificity of rabbit polyclonal antibody against Rac1 were identified 
by ELISA, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry, respectively.
RESULTS: The fusion protein His-Rac1 was successfully expressed in E.coli. The 
pAb could specifically detect Rac1 in human HeLa cells and MCF-7 cells in 
Western blotting. Moreover, the pAb could specifically recognized Rac1 protein 
in human kidney tissues.
CONCLUSION: The pAb of human Rac1 protein was successfully prepared, which could 
specifically recognize Rac1 protein in several natural samples.

PMID: 26271988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Mol Biol. 2006 Mar 17;357(1):49-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2005.12.058. Epub 2006 
Jan 6.

Thioredoxin fusions increase folding of single chain Fv antibodies in the 
cytoplasm of Escherichia coli: evidence that chaperone activity is the prime 
effect of thioredoxin.

Jurado P(1), de Lorenzo V, Fernández LA.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones 
Científicas (CSIC), Campus de Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain.

In this study we investigate the effect of thioredoxin (Trx1) protein fusions in 
the production, oxidation, and folding of single chain Fv (scFv) antibodies in 
the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli. We analyze the expression levels, solubility, 
disulfide-bond formation, and antigen-binding properties of Trx1-scFv fusions in 
E. coli wild-type cells and isogenic strains carrying mutations in the 
glutathione oxidoreductase (gor) and/or thioredoxin reductase (trxB) genes. We 
compare the Trx1-scFv fusions with other reported systems for production of scFv 
in the cytoplasm of E. coli, including protein fusions to the maltose-binding 
protein. In addition, we analyze the effect of co-expressing a 
signal-sequence-less derivative of the periplasmic chaperone and disulfide-bond 
isomerase DsbC (DeltassDsbC), which has been shown to act as a chaperone for 
scFvs in the cytoplasm. The results reported here demonstrate that Trx1 fusions 
produce the highest expression level and induce the correct folding of scFvs 
even in the absence of DeltassDsbC in the cytoplasm of E. coli trxB gor cells. 
The disulfide bridges of Trx1-scFv fusions were formed correctly in E. coli trxB 
gor cells, but not in trxB single mutants. Antigen-binding assays showed that 
Trx1 has only a minor influence in the affinity of the scFv, indicating that 
Trx1-scFv fusions can be used without removal of the Trx1 moiety. In addition, 
we proved that a Trx1"AGPA" variant, having its catalytic cysteine residues 
mutated to alanine, was fully capable of assisting the folding of the fused 
scFvs. Taken together, our data indicate that the Trx1 moiety acts largely as an 
intramolecular protein chaperone, not as a disulfide bond catalyst, inducing the 
correct folding of scFvs in the cytoplasm of E. coli trxB gor cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2005.12.058
PMID: 16427080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Oct;31(10):1404-7, 1412.

[Development and characterization of polyclonal antibody against regeneration 
(rgn) of Drosophila].

[Article in Chinese]

Li Z(1), Liu Z(1), Jin L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, College of Life Science, Northeast Forestry 
University, Harbin 150040, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare and characterize rat polyclonal antibodies highly specific 
for Drosophila regeneration (rgn).
METHODS: Gene fragments rgn were cloned from Drosophila W(1118) cDNAs by PCR and 
then subcloned into vector pRSETA. Its expression was induced in E.coli 
JM109(DE3). Then the fusion protein was purified by Ni-NTA superflow 
chromatography. After the products was identified by Western blotting, SD male 
rats were immunized with the rgn fusion protein. The polyclonal antibodies were 
obtained from the rat serum. The specificity and titer of the polyclonal 
antibodies were detected by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Through the recombinant plasmid pRSETA-rgn, 6×His-rgn fusion protein 
was expressed abundantly in E.coli JM109(DE3). After purification, it was used 
to immunize SD rats as antigen to generate the polyclonal antibodies against 
rgn. Immunohistochemistry showed that rgn is located in the cytoplasm of 
hemocytes of the third instar larvae of Drosophila.
CONCLUSION: The experiment has prepared high-specificity rat polyclonal 
antibodies against rgn.

PMID: 26429543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2007 Jun;32(3):373-9.

[Preparation of anti-LRRC4 polyclonal antibody and its application in 
constructing expression profile of human gliomas with different pathological 
grades].

[Article in Chinese]

Li D(1), Wu MH, Chen Q, Huang H, Huang C, Li WS, Li XL, Li GY.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Central South University, Changsha 410078, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare anti-LRRC4 polyclonal antibody and analyze the correlation 
between the expression of LRRC4 and pathological grades of gliomas in rabbits.
METHODS: Appropriate protein sequence with good hydrophilicity and antigenicity 
was chosen by analyzing with DS Gene 1.1 software. The corresponding nucleic 
acid sequence amplified by PCR was used to construct a recombinant pGEX-4T-2/276 
bp. E.coli JM109 transformed with the recombinant was induced by IPTG to express 
GST-fusion protein, and the fusion protein expressed as insoluble inclusion 
bodies. Then the purified inclusion body was used to immunize rabbits. Once the 
titer of antiserum reached 1:10(8) by indirect ELISA, the serum was collected 
and purified. The expression-profile of LRRC4 in embryonic tissues and gliomas 
with various pathological grades were obtained by western blot and 
immunohistochemistry with the anti-LRRC4 polyclonal antibody.
RESULTS: The highly specific anti-LRRC4 polyclonal antibody whose titer reached 
1:10(8) was prepared. The relatively specific expression of LRRC4 was detected 
in the normal brain, but reduced expression or loss of expression in gliomas was 
also noticed by immunohistochemistry, and there was a correlation between the 
expression level of lrrc4 and the pathological grade of gliomas.
CONCLUSION: The anti-LRRC4 polyclonal antibody with high titer and specificity 
has been obtained. A correlation between the expression level of LRRC4 and the 
pathological grade of gliomas is detected, which lays the foundation for 
advanced research of LRRC4.

PMID: 17611308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Apr;25(4):328-31.

[Preparation and characterization of anti-Amelotin polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun Y(1), Zhang JJ, Han TT, Li DL, Cao XM, Li WX, Gao YG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Stomotalogy, School of Stomotalogy, Weifang Medical University, 
Weifang 261042, China. yansw2005@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To construct a mouse Amelotin recombinant plasmid, express mouse Amelotin 
protein and prepare its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The cDNA sequence of mouse Amelotin gene was downloaded from GenBank. 
The coding region, which did not include signal peptide, was amplified by 
RT-PCR. Then it was recombined into prokaryotic expression vector pET32a and 
transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3). After induced by IPTG, the recombinant 
protein was expressed and purified using affinity purification. The polyclonal 
antibody was obtained from New Zealand rabbit immunized with the recombinant 
protein and the titer was identified by ELISA. The polyclonal antibody was 
identified by Western blot and immunohistochemistry assays.
RESULTS: The recombinant prokaryotic expression vector pET32a-Amelotin was 
constructed and the recombinant prorein was purified successfully. ELISA 
analysis showed the titer of the generated antiserum was 1:12,800. Western blot 
and immunohistochemistry analysis demonstrated this antibody bound specifically 
with Amelotin.
CONCLUSION: The anti-Amelotin antibody from the rabbit with high titer and 
specificity had been prepared with the purified recombinant Amelotin as 
immunogen, which is helpful for further research into the detection and function 
of Amelotin.

PMID: 19351503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2003 Aug;43(4):448-52.

[Study on high-expression of soluble hbFGF in Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun J(1), Hong A, Zhang L, Sun F, Song Z.

Author information:
(1)Bioengineering Institute of Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China. 
sunjinhua123456@163.com

The formation of inclusion body is correlated with the overexpression of foreign 
proteins in Escherichia coli. Controlling of the expression level seems to be 
critical to increase the soluble component. With the prerequisite of no 
alterations in amino acid sequence, the wobble bases of the first 3 codons 
downstream the initiation codon ATG of a hbFGF high-expression mutation, 
established previously, were changed into the bases of the native hbFGF 
sequences. Seven primers were synthesized for retro-mutations, after PCR were 
undertaken, the products were cloned into pET-3c, and recombinants were 
transformed into BL21 (DE3) plysS for expression. One strain with high 
solubility and bioactivity were identified, indicating that restriction of the 
expression level of recombinant protein is helpful for high-solubility.

PMID: 16276918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Dec;26(12):1238-40, 1245.

[Cloning and expression of novel swine gene BCL-G(L) in E.coli and preparation 
of its polyclonal antibody in guinea pigs].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang PF(1), Cao JS, Liu C, Zhao HP, Zhang DL.

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratory of Virology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest 
Agriculture & Forestry University, Yangling 712100, China. pengfei519@126.com

AIM: In order to express a novel gene named as BCL-G(L); of swine in E.coli and 
prepare its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The contig sequence of the gene was predicted and in silicon cloned by 
blasting the human BCL-G(L); in swine ESTs database in NCBI. The cloning 
sequence was obtained by RT-PCR from swine spleen. The cloning sequence was 
identified by sequencing and compared with the contig sequence. Then the gene 
was cloned into a prokaryotic expression vector pET-32a to construct a 
recombinant plasmid named as pET32a-BCL-G(L);. The fusion protein 
pET32a-BCL-G(L); was expressed in E.coli BL21 and purified using a His-tag 
fusion protein purification kit. Then guinea pigs were immunized with the 
purified protein to get the specific polyclonal antibody.
RESULTS: The titer of the antibody was 1:800 detected by ELISA. The protein 
BCL-G(L); can be specifically detected by western blot assay using the 
polyclonal antibody.
CONCLUSION: The novel swine gene BCL-G(L); was cloned and expressed in E.coli 
and its polyclonal antibody was prepared successfully.

PMID: 21138691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2005 Jul;36(4):451-5.

[Production of HMGN2 polyclonal antibody by immunization with recombinant 
GST-HMGN2 fusion protein and its application to analysis of HMGN2 distribution 
in human monocytes].

[Article in Chinese]

Xiong WB(1), Feng Y, Wang GX, Huang N, Wu Q, Li X, Wang BY.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit of Infection & Immunity, West China School of Preclinical and 
Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare high mobility group chromosomal protein N2 (HMGN2) 
polyclonal antibodies and determine the subcellular localization of HMGN2 in 
human monocytes.
METHODS: The recombinant prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-1lambdaT-HMGN2 was 
constructed and E. coli-based product of GST-HMGN2 fusion protein was prepared 
and used to immunize rabbit for producing the anti-serum against HMGN2. The 
polyclonal antibodies were partially purified by caprylic acid and ammonium 
sulfate precipitation. The titter of specific polyclonal antibodies against 
HMGN2 was detected by ELISA. The immunocytochemical staining was performed to 
determine the distribution of HMGN2 in THP-1 cells.
RESULTS: Gel electrophoresis of the enzyme-digested recombinant plasmid and the 
DNA sequencing confirmed that the recombinant prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-1lambdaT-HMGN2 was correctly constructed. After IPTG induction, the 
recombinant-transformed E. coli produced a bulk of GST-HMGN2 fusion protein. The 
polyclonal antibodies to HMGN2 was obtained from the serum of rabbit immunized 
with GST-HMGN2 fusion protein and its ELISA titer was 1:2000. The 
immunocytochemistry staining indicated that when stimulated with LPS, HMGN2 was 
present not only in THP-1 nucleus but also in the cytoplasm. The presence of 
HMGN2 was also detected in the culture supernatant.
CONCLUSION: This result suggests that recombinant peptide fusion protein could 
be used to produce peptide antibody. HMGN2 could be present in the cytoplasm of 
monocytes and release to the extracellular environment when stimulated with 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS).

PMID: 16078558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Di Yi Jun Yi Da Xue Xue Bao. 2005 Mar;25(3):308-12.

[Construction of recombinant adenovirus containing mIkappaBalpha gene by 
homogenous recombination in E.coli. and its expression in Hep G2 cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Jin WD(1), Chen LH, Mu F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou 510515, China. jwd18@21.com

OBJECTIVE: To develop a rapid and efficient method for preparing recombinant 
adenovirus containing human mIkappaBalpha gene by homogenous recombination in 
E.coli. and detect its expression in Hep G2 cells.
METHODS: The mIkappaBalpha gene was cloned into the shuttle plasmid pAdTrack-CMV 
containing green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene, followed by 
linearization of the resultant plasmid pAdTrack-CMV- mIkappaBalpha by Pme I 
digestion and subsequent cotransformation into E.coli BJ5183 cells along with an 
adenoviral backbone plasmid pAdEasy-1. The recombinant plasmid pAd- 
mIkappaBalpha was selected for kanamycin resistance and confirmed by multiple 
restriction endonuclease analyses. Finally, the linearized recombinant plasmid 
was transfected into 293 cells, in which Ad- mIkappaBalpha were generated within 
7 to 10 days. The virus titer in 293 cells and its infection efficiency in Hep 
G2 cells were detected and calculated with the aid of GFP expression.
RESULTS: PCR indicated that the recombinant adenovirus contained mIkappaBalpha 
gene and the titer of Ad- mIkappaBalpha was 2.7x10(9) PFU/ml. With a 
multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10, Ad- mIkappaBalpha could be expressed 
stably and efficiently in Hep G2 cells and the infection efficiency was 57% at 
24 h and 100% at 48 h after transfection.
CONCLUSIONS: Homogenous recombination in E.coli can efficiently and conveniently 
construct recombinant adenovirus containing mIkappaBalpha gene capable of 
amplification in 293 cells and efficient infection of Hep G2 cells. The 
recombinant adenovirus may serve as a good gene transfer vector for study the 
function of mIkappaBalpha gene and therapy for hepatocarcinoma.

PMID: 15772000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Jan;31(1):105-9.

[Preparation and identification of the polyclonal antibody against heat shock 
protein 70 (DnaK) from Shigella flexneri 5a M90T].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Y(1), Zhou W(2), Liao X(2), Yue J(2), Song T(2), Dai H(2), Chen X(2), Liang 
L(2), Huhe B(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, 
Hohhot 010018; Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100071, China.
(2)Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100071, China.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, 
Hohhot 010018, China.

OBJECTIVE: To generate polyclonal antibodies against Shigella flexneri 5a M90T 
heat shock protein 70 (DnaK) and identify the specificity and titer of 
antibodies.
METHODS: The sequence of Shigella flexneri 5a M90T dnaK gene was amplified by 
PCR and inserted into expression vector pET-24a to obtain recombinant plasmid 
pET24a-dnaK. Then the recombinant plasmid pET24a-dnaK was transformed into 
E.coli BL21 (DE3) and expressed under IPTG induction. The recombinant DnaK 
proteins with His-tag (DnaK-His) were then purified by affinity purification. 
The polyclonal antibodies were prepared by immunizing the mice with the purified 
recombinant proteins and then harvesting mouse sera. The specificity and titer 
of the polyclonal antibodies were identified by Western blotting, ELISA and 
immunofluorescent staining.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid pET24a-dnaK was expressed efficiently in E.coli 
BL21 (DE3). The polyclonal antibodies harvested from the mice immunized with 
DnaK-His were demonstrated being specific to Shigella flexneri 5a M90T DnaK 
proteins, and could be efficient in Western blotting, ELISA and 
immunofluorescent staining.
CONCLUSION: The polyclonal antibodies against Shigella flexneri 5a M90T DnaK 
protein have been successfully prepared.

PMID: 25575068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 May;24(5):471-4.

[cDNA cloning and prokaryotic expression of human cholesteryl ester transfer 
protein and preparation of its antiserum].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu HR(1), Zeng WW, Zhou B, Shen L, Wu G, Xue H, Chen BS.

Author information:
(1)Bioengineering College, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 
010018, China. lhz17@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To clone human cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) cDNA, express and 
purify human CETP in E.coli and prepare CETP-specific rabbit antiserum.
METHODS: by RT-PCR method, the encoding sequence of human cholesteryl ester 
transfer protein (CETP) was cloned into pET-30b(+) vector. Then BL21 (DE3) of 
E.coli transformed with recombinant vector pET-CETP was induced to express CETP 
in high level by IPTG. The expressed protein was purified from 
SDS-polyacrylamide gel, and the antiserum against CETP was raised in rabbit. The 
titer and specificity of rabbit antiserum were evaluated by ELISA, Western blot 
and immunofluorescence assay.
RESULTS: The results of SDS-PAGE showed that CETP was expressed in the form of 
inclusion bodies in BL21(DE3) and the best expression time was about 4 hours. 
The titer of the rabbit antiserum prepared with CETP purified from SDS-PAGE was 
1:5. 12 x 10(5) and the antiserum reacted specifically with CETP expressed in 
BL21 (DE3) and COS7 cells.
CONCLUSION: The preparation of the specific rabbit antiserum against CETP will 
be valuable for the study on the structure and function of human CETP.

PMID: 18466705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2002 May;32(2):189-205. doi: 10.1081/PB-120004130.

Co-overexpression of folding modulators improves the solubility of the 
recombinant guinea pig liver transglutaminase expressed in Escherichia coli.

Ikura K(1), Kokubu T, Natsuka S, Ichikawa A, Adachi M, Nishihara K, Yanagi H, 
Utsumi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biology, Kyoto Institute of Technology, Japan. 
ikura@ipc.kit.ac.jp

Transglutaminases (EC 2.3.2.13) catalyze the formation of 
epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine cross-links and the substitution of primary 
amines for the gamma-carboxamide groups of protein bound glutamine residues, and 
are involved in many biological phenomena. Transglutaminase reactions are also 
applicable in applied enzymology. Here, we established an expression system of 
recombinant mammalian tissue-type transglutaminase with high productivity. 
Overexpression of guinea pig liver transglutaminase in Escherichia coli, using a 
plasmid pET21-d, mostly resulted in the accumulation of insoluble and inactive 
enzyme protein. By the expression culture at lower temperatures (25 and 18 
degrees C), however, a fraction of the soluble and active enzyme protein 
slightly increased. Co-overexpression of a molecular chaperone system 
(DnaK-DnaJ-GrpE) and/or a folding catalyst (trigger factor) improved the 
solubility of the recombinant enzyme produced in E. coli cells. The specific 
activity, the affinity to the amine substrate, and the sensitivity to the 
calcium activation and GTP inhibition of the purified soluble recombinant enzyme 
were lower than those of the natural liver enzyme. These results indicated that 
co-overexpression of folding modulators tested improved the solubility of the 
overproduced recombinant mammalian tissue-type transglutaminase, but the 
catalytic properties of the soluble recombinant enzyme were not exactly the same 
as those of the natural enzyme.

DOI: 10.1081/PB-120004130
PMID: 12071648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;32(2):253-7.

[Preparation and application of rabbit antiserum against structural protein VP2 
of canine bocavirus].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Q(1), Yan Y(1), Ma J(1), Li J(1), Zhang W(1), Huang L(1), Sun Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Basic Medicine, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Basic Medicine, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, China. *Corresponding author, 
E-mail: sunraining2008@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare the rabbit polyclonal antibody against canine bocavirus 
(CBV) structural protein VP2 and identify its specificity.
METHODS: The target sequence of gene fragment encoding VP2 C-terminal region 
(300 AA) was amplified from CBV infection clone. After the restriction enzyme 
digestion and nucleotide sequencing, the target gene was successfully inserted 
into pET32a(+) prokaryotic expression vector to form recombinant plasmid 
pET-32a(+)-VP2. Then pET-32a(+)-VP2 was transferred into E.coli (BL21), and 
VP2-his fusion protein was induced under the optimized induction of isopropyl 
β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). The products were identified and analyzed by 
SDS-PAGE. The purified fusion protein was inoculated into adult rabbits to 
develop polyclonal antibody. After the titer of the antiserum was detected by 
ELISA, Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining were performed to 
evaluate the features of the prepared antiserum.
RESULTS: Restriction enzyme digestion and sequencing showed that prokaryotic 
expression vector pET-32a(+)-VP2 was successfully constructed. The soluble 
recombinant protein was highly expressed in E.coli BL21 as expected. After 
purification and inoculation into adult rabbits, the high-titer polyclonal 
antibody was prepared and the titer was 1:6 400 000. Western blotting and 
immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the specificity of the prepared 
polyclonal antibody was perfect.
CONCLUSION: The polyclonal antibody against CBV structural protein VP2 has been 
successfully prepared.

PMID: 26927387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2009 Jul;29(7):1405-7.

[Construction of a prokaryotic expression vector for apoptin and preparation of 
polyclonal antibody of apoptin].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang JS(1), Zhang MX, Duan XY, Mo F, Wang QY, Yang GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong 
University College of Medicine, Xi'an 710061, China. wangjsh@mail.xjtu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To construct a prokaryotic expression vector for apoptin and prepare 
polyclonal antibody of apoptin.
METHODS: Apoptin gene amplified from pGEM-T/Apoptin plasmid by PCR was cloned 
into pET-28a (+). E.coli BL21 (DE3) was transformed by the recombinant plasmid, 
and apoptin protein expression induced by IPTG was analyzed by SDS-PAGE. BALB/c 
mice were immunized with the protein and the titer of the antibody was 
determined using indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
RESULTS: Apoptin gene was successfully cloned into pET-28a (+), and the 
expression of a protein with relative molecular mass of about 17 000 was 
identified by SDA-PAGE. After 5 immunizations of the mice with the protein, the 
blood antibody titer reached 1:5x10(5).
CONCLUSION: The prokaryotic expression vector for apoptin is successfully 
constructed and the polyclonal antibody of apoptin is obtained, which allows 
further functional study of apoptin.

PMID: 19620066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Jan;22(1):60-3.

[Fusion expression of gastric cancer-related gene MPS-1 and preparation of 
rabbit antibody against GST-MPS-1].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang YW(1), Zhu ZG, Gu QL, Li JF, Qu Y, Liu BY, Lin YZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Second Medical University, 
Shanghai Institute of Digestive Surgery, Shanghai 200025, China. 
w_yw1961@hotmail.com

AIM: To express the fusion protein GST-MPS-1 in E.coli and prepare rabbit 
antibody against GST-MPS-1.
METHODS: MPS-1 cDNA was inserted into the vector of pGEX-5X. The recombinant was 
then transformed into E.coli BL21. After induction with the IPTG, the fusion 
protein GST-MPS-1 was expressed in E.coli. The purified fusion protein was then 
used to immunize the New Zealand rabbits to obtain the polyclonal antibody 
against GST-MPS-1. Specificity of the antibody was tested by Western blot and 
immunofluorescent staining.
RESULTS: The cDNA sequence of MPS-1 in the recombinant was confirmed by 
restriction endonuclease digestion and sequence analysis. SDS-PAGE result showed 
that fusion protein was highly expressed in E.coli with a molecular weight of 36 
kDa. The titer of the rabbit serum against GST-MPS-1 was as high as 1x10(5) in 
ELISA analysis. The polyclonal antibody were found to specifically bind to MPS-1 
protein in Western blot and immunofluorescent staining.
CONCLUSION: The preparation of the polyclonal antibody against MPS-1 lay a 
foundation for the further study of MPS-1 expression at protein levels and its 
function.

PMID: 16388747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Oct;24(10):975-8.

[Preparation and characterization of the polyclonal antibody against pig 
integrin beta6 subunit LBD as FMDV receptor].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao SD(1), Chang HY, DU JZ, Wang JF, Zhou JH, Zhao JY, Xie QG.

Author information:
(1)Lanzhou Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Lanzhou 730046, China.

AIM: To induce the expression of FMDV receptor integrin beta6 subunit 
ligand-binding domain in E.coli and prepare the rabbit polyclonal antibody 
against it.
METHODS: The fragment coding beta6 ligand-binding domain was amplified by PCR 
and doubly digested with BamH Iand Xho I. Then it was cloned into expression 
vector pGEX-4T-1 to obtain recombinant plasmid pGEX-4T-1-beta6LBD. After 
pGEX-4T-1-beta6LBD was transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3) and induced by IPTG, 
the expression of fusion proteins was identified by SDS-PAGE, with inclusion 
body prepared and fusion protein purified. Then new Zealand rabbits were 
immunized to prepare polyclonal antibody against beta6LBD. GST-beta6LBD 
antiserum was obtained and the specificity of polyclonal antibody was detected 
by Western blot.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE demonstrated that the fusion protein GST-beta6LBD was 
expressed with the expected molecular weight at 42 000. A single clear band of 
GST-beta6LBD fusion protein appeared in SDS-PAGE gel after purification. The 
titer of the polyclonal antibody was above 1:12 800 and it is of high 
specificity.
CONCLUSION: The successful preparation of rabbit anti pig beta6LBD polyclonal 
antibody with high affinity and specificity will lay a foundation for further 
research into the function of integrin beta6 in FMDV infection.

PMID: 18845083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;27(10):1110-3.

[The preparation of rabbit antiserum against gekko japonicus Hoxc10 and it's 
property identification].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou XF(1), Lu RF, Chen Q, Chu YD, Wang XQ, Qian TM, Gu XX.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Neuroregeneration, Nantong University, Nantong, China.

AIM: Prepare the rabbit antiserum against gecko japonicus Hoxc10 and to identify 
its properties.
METHODS: Prokaryotic expression vector of g-Hoxc10 were constructed and then 
transform into E.coli (BL21). To make GST-g-Hoxc10 fusion protein in E.coli 
(BL21) under the optimized induction of Isopropyl 
β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside(IPTG). The recombination proteins were purified 
using affinity chromatography. The purified fusion protein was inoculated into 
adult rabbits to develop antiserum. Western blot and immunohistochemistry 
staining were then performed to evaluate the feature of the prepared antiserum.
RESULTS: Prokaryotic expression vectors of g-Hoxc10 were successfully 
constructed. The soluble recombinant protein was highly expressed in E.coli BL21 
and inoculated into adult rabbits to obtain high titer antiserum. Western blot 
and immunohistochemistry staining were then performed to evaluate the 
specificity of the prepared antiserum.
CONCLUSION: We successfully amplified and expressed the g-Hoxc10 in E.coli BL21. 
The purified fusion protein was inoculated into adult rabbits to develop 
antiserum. The obtained antiserum of g-Hoxc10 showed a high titer against Hoxc10 
proteins. The protein and antiserum prepared in this study can be used for 
further research of the function investigation of Hoxc10.

PMID: 21968313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;24(4):348-50.

[Prokaryotic expression of the extracellular region of human CD1d and 
preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen ZQ(1), Huang Z, Liang XD, Lu TT, He TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Zhanjiang 
524023, China. czqhk@126.com

AIM: To explore the prokaryotic expression of the extracellular region of human 
CD1d (hCD1d) and prepare its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The gene encoding the extracellular region of hCD1d was amplified by 
PCR and cloned into prokaryotic expression vector pET28, then expressed in 
E.coli BL21 (DE3) with IPTG induction. The recombinant protein was purified by 
Ni2+-NTA agarose column and then used as immunogen to immunize the mouse. The 
generated polyclonal antibody was evaluated by ELISA, Western blot and 
immunohistochemical staining (IHC), respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant extracellular region of hCD1d was successfully 
expressed and purified. The polyclonal antibody with high titer and high 
specificity was obtained, which could recognize the native hCD1d in the human 
small intestinal tissues.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant extracellular region of hCD1d has been obtained. The 
antibody with high titer and high specificity against the extracellular region 
of hCD1d from the mouse has been successfully prepared, which lays a foundation 
for further research into the detection and functional study of CD1d.

PMID: 18394340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2004 Jun 18;36(3):268-71.

[Prokaryotic expression, purification and preparation of polyclonal antibody and 
immunohistochemistry analysis of RS21-C6 molecule].

[Article in Chinese]

Li Y(1), Jiang DD, Jin C, Liu YF, Chen WF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology Peking University School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100083, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express a thymocyte development related molecule RS21-C6 protein 
prepare its polyclonal antibodies and study its distribution in thymus by 
immunohistochemistry analysis.
METHODS: RS21-C6 recombinant protein was expressed in E.coli system and then 
purified by Ni-NTA chromatographic method. Polyclonal antibodies were prepared 
by immunized rabbits with the purified recombinant protein. Immunohistochemistry 
analysis was performed to show the distribution of RS21-C6 in mouse thymus 
tissue.
RESULTS: RS21-C6 recombinant protein was successfully expressed and purified. 
Then the high titer polyclonal antibody was prepared and its specificity was 
confirmed. The immunohistochemistry analysis demonstrated that RS21-C6 had an 
intense expression in the medullary region of thymus while scattered in the 
cortical region and the cortical medullary junction region of thymus. It also 
showed that RS21-C6 was co-expressed in thymocyte and thymic stromal cells.
CONCLUSION: RS21-C6 molecule is broadly and highly expressed in thymus which 
suggests that this molecule may perform various functions in thymocytes at 
different developmental stages.

PMID: 15205697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2011 Jan;27(1):26-30.

[Prokaryotic expression, purification and preparation of polyclonal antibody for 
wheat grain peroxidase WP1 gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Shan L(1), Tang R, Liu S, Fan S, Guo A.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Northwest A & F University, Yangling 712100, China.

Wheat peroxidases 1 (WP1) is the major cationic peroxidase of wheat (Triticum 
aestivum) grain, which is involved in the development of seeds and an important 
factor to affect the final processing quality of flour. We constructed a 
prokaryotic expression vector pET28a-WP1, and transformed it into E. coli host 
strain T7 Expression. His-tag fused WP1 existed as inclusion body, and the 
recombinant protein was purified by Ni-NTA resin affinity chromatography under 
denatured condition. The purity of target protein reached 98%. The recombinant 
WP1 was refolded by gradient urea dialysis, then used as antigen to immune 
rabbit to prepare polyclonal antibody. The result of ELISA showed that the titer 
of rabbit anti-WP1 antiserum was higher than 1:625 000. The result of Western 
blotting demonstrated that the prepared WP1 polyclonal antibody could be used to 
detect WP1 with high specificity.

PMID: 21553487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Jun;30(6):623-6.

[Preparation and characterization of polyclonal antibody against Ia-associated 
invariant chain of Muscovy Duck (Cairina moschata)].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu S(1), Zhu M(2), Chen D(2), Wu C(3), Ni Q(3), Yu W(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Fuyang Normal College, Fuyang 236037; Anhui Key 
Laboratory of Zoonoses, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei 230036, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Fuyang Normal College, Fuyang 236037, China.
(3)Anhui Key Laboratory of Zoonoses, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei 
230036, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare polyclonal antibody against invariant chain of Muscovy 
duck (Cairina moschata) (MDIi) and identify its reaction with MDIi extracted 
from tissues of Muscovy duck.
METHODS: MDIi was amplified by PCR and used to construct the prokaryotic 
expression vector of pET-32a/MDIi by linking with the plasmid of pET-32a. Then 
pET-32a/MDIi was transformed into E.coli Rosetta to induce the prokaryotic 
expression. After identified by SDS-PAGE, prokaryotic expression products were 
further purified from running gel of SDS-PAGE and injected into mice to prepare 
polyclonal antibody against MDIi. The titer and specificity of the polyclonal 
antibody against MDIi were analyzed by indirect ELISA and Western blotting, 
respectively. The intensity of reaction between the polyclonal antibody and MDIi 
extracted from tissues of Muscovy duck was also identified by indirect ELISA.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression vector pET-32a/MDIi was successfully 
constructed. About 40 kD recombinant proteins of MDIi were confirmed to be 
expressed in the form of inclusion body in Rosetta. Polyclonal antibody against 
MDIi with a titer of 1:128 000 was obtained from the immunized mice and its high 
specificity was demonstrated by Western blotting. The titer of reaction between 
the polyclonal antibody and MDIi was 1:32 000.
CONCLUSION: The polyclonal antibody against MDIi was successfully prepared with 
a high titer and specificity. It has a strong immune reaction with MDIi 
extracted from tissues of Muscovy duck.

PMID: 24909285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Mar;26(3):253-4, 257.

[Preparation of polyclonal antibody against human Fkbp19].

[Article in Chinese]

Fan KJ(1), Zhang Y, Liu NF, Sun Q, Yang X.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.

AIM: To prepare the polyclonal antibody against human Fkbp19 for future 
functional studies of Fkbp19.
METHODS: Prokaryotic expression vector pET21a-Fkbp19 was transformed into E.coli 
BL21-DE3, and then induced by IPTG. The recombinant protein was purified by 
Ni-NTA resin and used to immunize rabbits. Antiserums were used for Western blot 
and immunofluorescence to detect Fkbp19 in breast tumor cell.
RESULTS: His-Fkbp19 fusion protein was successfully expressed in E.coli. High 
titer polyclonal antiserum was obtained by immunizing rabbits with purified 
His-Fkbp19 fusion protein. The antiserum could detect endogenous Fkbp19 protein 
in breast tumor cell very well by Western blot.
CONCLUSION: The polyclonal antiserum against Fkbp19 was successfully generated.

PMID: 20230691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2001 Jul;9 Suppl:69-72.

[The expression of HCV RNA polymerase in E.coli and the study of its solubility 
and antigenicity].

[Article in Chinese]

Hou L(1), Du G, Lai D, Wang H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Molecular Biology, Institute of Microbiology and 
Epidemiology, Beijing 100071, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express HCV RNA polymerase and study its soluble condition and 
antigenicity.
METHODS: We constructed expression vectors pQE-5B-Fl and pQE-5B-C21 and 
expressed them in E.coli (M15). We analyzed their solubility in different 
conditions and purified soluble pQE-5B-C21 protein by Ni-NTA column, then 
detected its antigenicity by ELISA and western blot.
RESULTS: We obtained the purified soluble pQE-5B-C21 protein in the induction 
conditions of 18 degrees C and the protein was proved to be of good antigenicity 
by ELISA and western blot.
CONCLUSIONS: The RNA polymerase of HCV expressed in E.coli has good solubility 
and antigenicity.

PMID: 11509146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Jul;21(4):459-62.

[Expression of a candidate human Era binding protein A19 and the preparation of 
its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Li YF(1), Wu YM, Chen SM, Chen NC, Huang Y, Zhang XN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China. Liyf@263.net

AIM: To express a candidate hEra binding protein A19 in Escherichia coli and to 
prepare anti-A19 antibody.
METHODS: A19 gene was amplified by PCR from the plasmid containing A19 gene and 
was cloned into the expression vector pGEX-4T3 which was then transformed into 
E.coli. The A19 protein was expressed under IPTG induction. Antiserum was 
prepared by immunizing rabbits with the expressed A19 protein. The titer and 
specificity of polyclonal antibody were detected by Western blot.
RESULTS: The expressed A19 accounted for about 30.2% of total bacterial protein. 
The titer of the antiserum was about 1:4 000. Western blot analysis indicated 
that the antiserum had high specificity.
CONCLUSION: A19 fusion protein was highly expressed. The specific anti-A19 
antiserum was prepared successfully.

PMID: 15989791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Protein Pept Lett. 2005 Aug;12(6):555-60. doi: 10.2174/0929866054395860.

A general procedure for the production of antibody reagents against eukaryotic 
ribosomal proteins.

Dieci G(1), Bottarelli L, Ottonello S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biochimica e Biologia Molecolare, Università degli Studi di 
Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze 23/A, 43100 Parma, Italy. giorgio.dieci@unipr.it

Despite recent progress in the structural and functional analysis of bacterial 
and archaeal ribosomes, the structure and biogenesis of eukaryotic ribosomes 
still awaits a detailed characterization. Ribosomal protein-specific antibodies 
would be valuable tools for such studies, but their production is commonly 
hindered by the poor expression and solubility of eukaryotic ribosomal proteins 
in E. coli. We report here an improved general procedure for the over-production 
of recombinant eukaryotic ribosomal proteins and for the generation of the 
corresponding polyclonal antibodies. The specificity and sensitivity of 
detection of the antibodies produced by this procedure are documented.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866054395860
PMID: 16101395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Jun;31(6):829-32, 837.

[Preparation of monoclonal antibody against bovine phosphoenolpyruvate 
carboxykinase].

[Article in Chinese]

Sheng M(1), Zhang X(1), Zhang W(2), Zhang Y(2), Wang Y(2), Dai Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Provincial Key Laboratory of Xenotransplantation, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210029, China.
(2)Ministry of Health Key Laboratory of Antibody Technique, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 210029, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare the monoclonal antibody against bovine phosphoenolpyruvate 
carboxykinase (PEPCK) and characterize its biological functions.
METHODS: The recombinant plasmid containing PEPCK gene was constructed and used 
to transfect Escherichia coli. After expression induction in E.coli, the 
recombinant protein PEPCK was purified and used to immunize BALB/c mice. After 
the spleen B cells in the immunized mice were fused with murine myeloma cells, 
the positive clones were identified and selected by indirect ELISA for titer 
determination. PEPCK mAb produced by the positive hybridoma cells was enriched 
and its biological functions were examined by Western blotting, 
immunohistochemistry and immunoprecipitation.
RESULTS: One hybridoma cell line steadily secreting PEPCK mAb was successfully 
generated, namely 3D36H. Western blotting, immunohistochemistry and 
immunoprecipitation showed that the PEPCK mAb was able to specifically bind to 
bovine PEPCK protein.
CONCLUSION: The bovine PEPCK mAb was prepared successfully and had a good 
ability and specificity.

PMID: 26062429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 Jun;24(6):1004-9.

[Fusion expression of D-amino acid oxidase from Trignoposis variabilis with 
maltose binding protein and Vitreoscilla hemoglobin].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu H(1), Ma X, Luo H, Wen C, Shen Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, 
China. yuhm@tsinghua.edu.cn

D-amino acid oxidase (DAAO) is one of important industrial enzymes. To increase 
the solubility and activity of the TvDAAO from Trignoposis variabilis expressed 
in recombinant Escherichia coli (E. coli), a maltose binding protein (MBP) and 
Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb) was introduced to fuse with N-terminal of the 
TvDAAO, respectively. Fusion protein of MBP-TvDAAO was constitutively expressed 
in JM105/pMKC-DAAO and inductively expressed in JM105/pMKL-DAAO. With respect to 
the control strain of BL21 (DE3)/pET-DAAO without MBP fusion, the constitutive 
fusion expression obtained 28% of soluble protein with 3.7 folds of solubility 
improvement. As for the inductive fusion expression, corresponding results 
changed to 17% and 1.8 folds, respectively. However, the DAAO activity 
significantly decreased in the MBP-fusing expression. Fusion protein of 
VHb-TvDAAO was constructed and inductively expressed in BL21 (DE3)/pET-VDAAO. 
Its DAAO activity highly reached 3.24 u/mL in flask culture, about 90% increase 
in contrast to the control without VHb.

PMID: 18807983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 Oct;24(10):1761-7.

[Expression, antiserum preparation and bioactivity assays of insect neurotoxin 
LqhIT2].

[Article in Chinese]

Li H(1), Xia Y.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Engineering Research Center, Bioengineering College, Chongqing 
University, Chongqing 400030, China.

According to the codon bias of Pichia pastoris, the mature insect neurotoxin 
gene LqhIT2 was synthesized based on its amino acid sequence and was cloned to 
vector of PET-30a (+) and pPIC9K respectively. The fusion protein expressed in 
Escherichia. coli was induced with IPTG and purified with Ni-NTA His Bind 
Column. The purified fusion protein was used to immunize BALB/c mice, and 
antiserum obtained was highly specific with the titer of over 1:128 000. Using 
the antiserum, high-level expression transformants of P. pastoris were screened 
by dot blotting. The highest expression of recombinant LqhIT2 was about 9 mg/L 
in baffled flasks. The fusion protein of LqhIT2 expressed in E. coli was not 
toxic to locust, but the recombinant LqhIT2 expressed in P. pastoris had 
insecticidal activity against locust through injection.

PMID: 19149189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Biochem Mol Biol. 2004 Sep 30;37(5):556-64. doi: 10.5483/bmbrep.2004.37.5.556.

Neutralizing chimeric mouse-human antibodies against Burkholderia pseudomallei 
protease: expression, purification and characterization.

Chan SW(1), Ong GI, Nathan S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Gene Analysis and Technology, School of BioSciences and 
Biotechnology, Faculty of Science and Technology, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia, 43600 UKM Bangi, Selangor D. E., Malaysia.

A recombinant Fab monoclonal antibody (Fab) C37, previously obtained by phage 
display and biopanning of a random antibody fragment library against 
Burkholderia pseudomallei protease, was expressed in different strains of 
Escherichia coli. E. coli strain HB2151 was deemed a more suitable host for Fab 
expression than other E. coli strains when grown in media supplemented with 0.2 
% glycerol. The expressed Fab fragment was purified by affinity chromatography 
on a Protein G-Sepharose column, and the specificity of the recombinant Fab C37 
towards B. pseudomallei protease was proven by Western blotting, enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and by proteolytic activity neutralization. In 
addition, polyclonal antibodies against B. pseudomallei protease were produced 
in rabbits immunized with the protease. These were isolated from high titer 
serum by affinity chromatography on recombinant-Protein A-Sepharose. Purified 
polyclonal antibody specificity towards B. pseudomallei protease was proven by 
Western blotting and ELISA.

DOI: 10.5483/bmbrep.2004.37.5.556
PMID: 15479619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Jul;21(4):456-8.

[Prokaryotic expression of DnaJ-homologous chaperon PBP and preparation of 
rabbit antibody against PBP].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu CG(1), Zhu MC, Li W, Shi Y, Zhan Z, Wang YJ, Xiang PD.

Author information:
(1)Center of Clinical Molecular Biology, General Hospital of Air Force, Beijing 
100036, China. Liucg4336@sina.com

AIM: To express DnaJ-homologous chaperon peripherin-binding protein(PBP) gene in 
E.coli and prepare the rabbit antibody against PBP.
METHODS: The PBP cDNA was amplified from the human fetal brain tissue by RT-PCR. 
After confirmed by DNA sequencing, the PBP-cDNA was cloned into expression 
vector pET28a and then the PBP gene was expressed in E.coli under the IPTG 
induction. The expressed protein was purified through Ni-NTA affinity 
chromatography column. The rabbit antibody against PBP was prepared by 
immunizing two New Zealand white rabbits using the purified PBP as immunogen. 
The titer and specificity of the antisera were determined by Western blot.
RESULTS: The 720 bp PBP gene was amplified, cloned, and expressed in E.coli. The 
expressed product existed in the bacterial inclusion body and the supernatant of 
the bacteria lysate. The purified PBP reached electrophoretic purity. The rabbit 
antibody against PBP was prepared and its titer was about 1:1,600. Western blot 
analysis showed that the antibody could bind to the expressed PBP protein 
specifically.
CONCLUSION: The PBP protein was expressed in E.coli and rabbit antibody against 
PBP was prepared successfully, which lays the foundation for further study on 
the structure and biological function of PBP.

PMID: 15989790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Di Yi Jun Yi Da Xue Xue Bao. 2002 Oct;22(10):883-7.

Expression and immunocompetence identification of Plasmodium falciparum 
glutamate dehydrogenase.

Li LH(1), Li M, Wu YS, Wang P, Tian ZW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Guangzhou General Hospital of Guangzhou 
Command, Guangzhou 510010, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express the fusion protein of glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) with 
glutathione S-transferase (GST) of Plasmodium falciparum FCC1/HN in E. coli BL21 
and assess the immunocompetence of the recombinant protein.
METHODS: GDH gene of P. falciparum was specifically amplified with PCR, followed 
by double enzyme digestion and cloning the gene fragment into pGEX-4T-1 vector 
for the expression of the fusion protein GST. The recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into E. coli BL21. Four mice (Kunming strain) were immunized with 
purified recombinant protein (antigen) and the polyclonal antibodies produced in 
response to the treatment were collected. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and 
Western blotting were carried out to examine the immunocompetence of the 
recombinant protein.
RESULTS: The fusion protein was successfully expressed, which exhibited specific 
reaction with the sera obtained from mice immunized with P. falciparum. Specific 
humoral responses were elicited after introducing the fusion protein in mice and 
the specific antibody titer was 1:16 in agar diffusion assay.
CONCLUSION: GDH of P. falciparum may have successful expression in E. coli BL21 
and the expressed protein possesses high antigenicity.

PMID: 12377608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2001;19(2):80-3.

[Expression and immunocompetence characterization of Plasmodium falciparum 
lactate dehydrogenase].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu YS(1), Li M, Dong WQ, Li YJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, First Military Medical University, Guangzhou 
510515.

OBJECTIVE: To express lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) gene of Plasmodium falciparum 
FCC1/HN in the E. coli TG1 and analyse its immunocompetence.
METHODS: The LDH gene of the P. falciparum was specifically amplified by 
polymerase chain reaction, and the recovered gene fragment was cloned into 
pGEX-4T-1 vector for expression of fusion protein with glutathione 
S-transferase(GST). The recombinant plasmid was transformed into the E. coli 
TG1. Four mice (Kunming strain) were immunized with purified expressed 
protein(antigen) and the polyclonal antibodies were collected. The 
immunocompetence of recombinant protein was analysed by ELISA and Western-blot.
RESULTS: The LDH gene of P. falciparum was successfully expressed in the E. coli 
TG1. The expressed protein exhibited a specific reaction with immune sera 
obtained from rabbits immunized with P. falciparum. The specific humoral 
responses were induced in mice and the titer of the specific antibody was 1:16 
by two-dimensional diffusion assay.
CONCLUSION: The LDH gene of P. falciparum has been successfully expressed in the 
E. coli TG1 and the expressed protein has high antigencity.

PMID: 12571990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Nov;23(11):1025-7.

[Prokaryotic expression of human mast cell chymase gene and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen ZQ(1), Huang Z, He TW, Lu TT, Liang XD, He SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Zhanjiang 
524023, China.

AIM: To express the human mast cell chymase cDNA in E.coli and prepare the 
antibody against human mast cell chymase with recombinant chymase.
METHODS: The human mast cell chymase cDNA was cloned by RT-PCR. The recombinant 
chymase was expressed in E.coli with L-Arabinose induction and purified by 
Ni-NTA agarose column. Then the purified chymase was used as immunogen to 
immunize the rabbit. The titer and specificity of the anti-chymase antibody from 
the rabbit were analyzed by indirect ELISA and Western blot, respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant chymase was successfully expressed in E.coli, and the 
polyclonal anit-chymase antibody was prepared by immunizing the rabbit with the 
purified recombinant chymase. The titer of the generated antiserum was detected 
to be 1:12 800 by ELISA. Western blot analysis showed this antibody bound 
specifically with chymase.
CONCLUSION: The anti-chymase antibody from the rabbit with high titer and 
specificity has been prepared with purified recombinant chymase as immunogen, 
which lays a foundation for further research into detection and function of 
chymase.

PMID: 17988583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Mar;24(3):250-2.

[Preparation and characterization of the rabbit polyclonal antibody against the 
alpha3 domain of human CD1d].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen ZQ(1), Huang Z, Liang XD, He TW, Lu TT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Zhanjiang 
524023, China. czqhk@126.com

AIM: To prepare the rabbit antibody against the alpha3 domain of the human CD1d 
(hCD1d-alpha3).
METHODS: The gene fragment coding for hCD1d-alpha3 was amplified by PCR and 
cloned into prokaryotic expression vector pET28, then expressed in E.coli 
BL21(DE3). The recombinant protein hCD1d-alpha3 was purified with Ni(2+)-NTA 
agarose column and used as immunogen to immunize the rabbit. The titer and 
specificity of the anti-hCD1d-alpha3 antibody from the rabbit were analyzed by 
ELISA, Western blot and immunohistochemistry, respectively.
RESULTS: The recombinant hCD1d-alpha3 was successfully expressed and purified, 
and the polyclonal anit-hCD1d-alpha3 antibody was successfully prepared. The 
titer of the antiserum was 1:6 400 by ELISA. Western blot analysis showed this 
antiboday reacted specifically with hCD1d. Immunohistochemistry analysis showed 
the antibody could recognize the native hCD1d in the human intestinal tissue.
CONCLUSION: The anti-CD1d-alpha3 antibody from the rabbit with high titer and 
specificity has been prepared with purified recombinant hCD1d-alpha3 as 
immunogen, which lays a foundation for further research into detection and 
functional study of CD1d.

PMID: 18328185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;24(4):358-61.

[Gene cloning of ligand binding domain of porcine beta3 as FMDV receptor and 
preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Du JZ(1), Gao SD, Chang HY, Cong GZ, Lin T, Shao JJ, Liu XT, Cai XP.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Virology of Ministry of Agriculture, State Key 
Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, Lanzhou Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou 730046, China. 
dujzheng@163.com

AIM: To clone and express the ligand binding domain (LBD) cDNA of porcine 
integrin beta3 as foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) receptor and prepare its 
polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The LBD cDNA of porcine beta3 was obtained from the lung tissue of pig 
infected with FMDV by RT-PCR, and the recombinant plasmid pGEM/beta3LBD was 
constructed. After digested with BamH I/Xho I, the beta3LBD fragment was 
subcloned into prokaryotic expression vector pGEX 4T-1. The recombinant 
expression plasmid pGEX/beta3LBD was constructed and transformed into E.coli 
BL21(DE3). The recombinant porcine beta3LBD protein was expressed after IPTG 
induction and purified from total protein of BL21(DE3). The rabbits from New 
Zealand were immunized with the purified fusion protein to prepare polyclonal 
antibody, which was identified by Western blot and ELISA.
RESULTS: The 507 bp cDNA of porcine beta3LBD encoded a polypeptide of 169 amino 
acids. The similarity of nucleotide sequence beta3LBD between pigs and cattle, 
human being, chimpanzees, rhesus monkeys, horses, dogs, Norway rats, mice, 
chickens was 90.3%, 92.3%, 92.1%, 91.3%, 90.5%, 90.3%, 87.8%, 85.2%, 79.5%, 
respectively. The beta3LBD gene of mammals exhibited high sequence homology. The 
recombinant beta3LBD protein was expressed efficiently as inclusion body after 
IPTG induction and was approximately 44000. The titer of the polyclonal antibody 
against the purified beta3LBD protein was about 1:12 800 by ELISA.
CONCLUSION: The gene cloning and expression of beta3LBD and the preparation of 
its polyclonal antibody lay a foundation for further research into the 
interaction of FMDV with beta3 subunit of porcine integrin.

PMID: 18394343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2010 Mar;86(2):649-58. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-009-2325-9. Epub 2009 Nov 10.

Halophilic beta-lactamase as a new solubility- and folding-enhancing tag 
protein: production of native human interleukin 1alpha and human neutrophil 
alpha-defensin.

Tokunaga H(1), Saito S, Sakai K, Yamaguchi R, Katsuyama I, Arakawa T, Onozaki K, 
Arakawa T, Tokunaga M.

Author information:
(1)Applied and Molecular Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Kagoshima 
University, 1-21-24 Korimoto, Kagoshima, 890-0065, Japan.

The amino acid composition of halophilic enzymes is characterized by an abundant 
content of acidic amino acid, which confers to the halophilic enzymes extensive 
negative charges at neutral pH and high aqueous solubility. This negative charge 
prevents protein aggregation when denatured and thereby leads to highly 
efficient protein refolding. Beta-lactamase from periplasmic space of moderate 
halophile (BLA), a typical halophilic enzyme, can be readily expressed as a 
native, active form in Escherichia coli cytoplasm. Similar to other halophilic 
enzymes, BLA is soluble upon denaturation by heat or urea treatments and, hence, 
can be efficiently refolded. Such high solubility and refolding efficiency make 
BLA a potential fusion partner for expression of aggregation-prone heterologous 
proteins to be expressed in E. coli. Here, we succeeded in the soluble 
expression of several "difficult-to-express" proteins as a BLA fusion protein 
and verified biological activities of human interleukin 1alpha and human 
neutrophil alpha-defensin, HNP-1.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-009-2325-9
PMID: 19902204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Bioresour Technol. 2010 Jun;101(11):4151-6. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2010.01.043.

Enhanced l-phenylalanine biosynthesis by co-expression of pheA(fbr) and 
aroF(wt).

Zhou H(1), Liao X, Wang T, Du G, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122 Jiangsu, China.

A beta-2-thienylalanine-resistant E. coli K12 mutant carrying a Thr326Pro 
mutation in the regulation (R) domain of pheA (pheA(fbr)) was obtained by 
N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (NTG) mutagenesis. In the presence of 200mM 
l-phenylalanine (l-Phe), a recombinant E. coli WSH-Z06 (pAP-B03) carrying 
pheA(fbr) as well as wild-type aroF (aroF(wt)) exhibited more than 70% of the 
chorismate mutase-prephenate dehydratase (CM-PDT) activity as observed in the 
absence of this amino acid. The l-Phe titer of WSH-Z06 (pAP-B03) reached 
35.38g/L in a 3-L fermentor, which was 2.81-fold higher than that of the 
original strain E. coli WSH-Z06. Furthermore, the l-Phe yield on glucose of 
WSH-Z06 (pAP-B03) (0.26mol/mol) was twice that of E. coli WSH-Z06. This 
recombinant E. coli WSH-Z06 (pAP-B03) is a potential strain for over-production 
of l-Phe.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2010.01.043
PMID: 20137911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2021 Jul;105(13):5657-5674. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-021-11405-9. Epub 2021 Jun 28.

Predictive approaches to guide the expression of recombinant vaccine targets in 
Escherichia coli: a case study presentation utilising Absynth Biologics Ltd. 
proprietary Clostridium difficile vaccine antigens.

Hussain H(1), McKenzie EA(1), Robinson AM(2)(3), Gingles NA(2)(4), Marston 
F(2)(5), Warwicker J(1), Dickson AJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, University of Manchester, M1 7DN, 
Manchester, UK.
(2)Absynth Biologics Ltd., BioHub, Alderley Park, Cheshire, SK10 4TG, UK.
(3)Evotec Limited, Biohub, Alderley Park, Cheshire, England, SK10 4TG, UK.
(4)metaLinear Limited, Biohub, Alderley Park, Cheshire, England, SK10 4TG, UK.
(5)Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, L3 5QA, Liverpool, UK.
(6)Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, University of Manchester, M1 7DN, 
Manchester, UK. alan.dickson@manchester.ac.uk.

Bacterial expression systems remain a widely used host for recombinant protein 
production. However, overexpression of recombinant target proteins in bacterial 
systems such as Escherichia coli can result in poor solubility and the formation 
of insoluble aggregates. As a consequence, numerous strategies or alternative 
engineering approaches have been employed to increase recombinant protein 
production. In this case study, we present the strategies used to increase the 
recombinant production and solubility of 'difficult-to-express' bacterial 
antigens, termed Ant2 and Ant3, from Absynth Biologics Ltd.'s Clostridium 
difficile vaccine programme. Single recombinant antigens (Ant2 and Ant3) and 
fusion proteins (Ant2-3 and Ant3-2) formed insoluble aggregates (inclusion 
bodies) when overexpressed in bacterial cells. Further, proteolytic cleavage of 
Ant2-3 was observed. Optimisation of culture conditions and changes to the 
construct design to include N-terminal solubility tags did not improve antigen 
solubility. However, screening of different buffer/additives showed that the 
addition of 1-15 mM dithiothreitol alone decreased the formation of insoluble 
aggregates and improved the stability of both Ant2 and Ant3. Structural models 
were generated for Ant2 and Ant3, and solubility-based prediction tools were 
employed to determine the role of hydrophobicity and charge on protein 
production. The results showed that a large non-polar region (containing 
hydrophobic amino acids) was detected on the surface of Ant2 structures, whereas 
positively charged regions (containing lysine and arginine amino acids) were 
observed for Ant3, both of which were associated with poor protein solubility. 
We present a guide of strategies and predictive approaches that aim to guide the 
construct design, prior to expression studies, to define and engineer 
sequences/structures that could lead to increased expression and stability of 
single and potentially multi-domain (or fusion) antigens in bacterial expression 
systems.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-021-11405-9
PMCID: PMC8285303
PMID: 34180005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


504. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2014 Apr;37(4):601-8. doi: 10.1007/s00449-013-1026-z. 
Epub 2013 Aug 4.

Enhancement of extracellular pullulanase production from recombinant Escherichia 
coli by combined strategy involving auto-induction and temperature control.

Chen WB(1), Nie Y, Xu Y, Xiao R.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education and School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Ave., Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu 
Province, China.

Pullulanase was extracellularly produced with an engineered Escherichia coli 
with a combined strategy. When auto-induction instead of isopropyl 
β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) induction method was implemented, we observed 
increased extracellular activity (4.2 U ml(-1)) and cell biomass (7.95 g DCW 
l(-1)). Subsequent investigation of temperature effect on fermentation showed 
cultivation performed at 25 °C presented the highest extracellular titer and 
cell biomass. In order to reduce the extended production period, we developed a 
two-stage temperature control strategy. Its application not only reduced the 
production period from 72 to 36 h, but also further enhanced the yield of 
extracellular pullulanase. Finally, with a view to releasing more intracellular 
pullulanase, we altered cell membrane permeability with various medium 
additives. As a result, extracellular titer was elevated to 68.23 U ml(-1), 
nearly 35-fold higher than that with IPTG induction method. The combined 
strategy developed here may be useful for the production of other extracellular 
proteins by recombinant E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-013-1026-z
PMID: 23912330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2022 Jan;38(1):78-83.

[Prokaryotic expression and identification of PPE15 protein from Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis and preparation of rabbit polyclonal antibodies].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu T(1), Li M(2), Wang C(3), Chang X(4), Qian Z(2), Li B(2), Wang H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, School of Laboratory Medicine, Department 
of Immunology, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Immunology in Chronic Diseases, 
Bengbu 233030, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Immunology in 
Chronic Diseases, Bengbu 233030, China.
(3)Department of Immunology, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Immunology in 
Chronic Diseases, Research Center of Laboratory, Bengbu 233030, China.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Fifth People's Hospital of Bengbu 
City, Bengbu 233030, China.
(5)Department of Immunology, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Immunology in 
Chronic Diseases, Research Center of Laboratory, Bengbu 233030, China. 
*Corresponding author, E-mail: hongtaowang@bbmc.edu.cn.

Objective To clone, express and purify PPE15 recombinant protein from 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (H37Rv), as well as prepare and characterize its 
rabbit polyclonal antibody. Methods By The PPE15 gene was amplified from the 
genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv by PCR, and the His-tagged 
prokaryotic PPE15 prokaryotic expression plasmid pET28a-PPE15 was constructed by 
homologous recombination cloning technique, and transformed into E. coli BL21 
(DE3). PPE15 expression was induced by isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside 
(IPTG). Recombinant PPE15 was identified by SDS-PAGE, and further purified by 
affinity chromatography with a Ni-NTA column. The renaturation purified PPE15 
protein was used to immunize New-Zealand rabbit to prepare polyclonal 
antibodies. The antibody specificity was analyzed by Western blot analysis, and 
antibody titer was determined by indirect ELISA. Results Recombinant prokaryotic 
PPE15 protein was successfully expressed and purified with a molecular weight of 
38 kDa. The purified PPE15 protein exhibited positive reaction with the serum of 
TB patients and the PPE15 protein, the titer of the polyclonal antibodies 
reaches more than 1:1 300 480. Conclusion The recombinant protein PPE15 was 
successfully expressed and purified, and high titer rabbit-derived polyclonal 
antibody was prepared which provided an experimental basis for further 
functional studies of PPE15 protein.

PMID: 35078578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Mol Gen Mikrobiol Virusol. 2013;(4):15-22.

[Antibiotic-dependent selection of the E. coli clones with increased chaperone 
activity for highly-efficient production of the full-length soluble New Delhi 
metallo-beta-lactamase].

[Article in Russian]

Kozyr' AV, Luneva NM, Khlyntseva AE, Shemiakin IG, Krasavtseva ON, Kolesnikov 
AV.

The spread of the New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase (NDM-1), a plasmid-borne 
enzyme conferring bacterial resistance to any known beta-lactam antibiotics, 
represents the global health threat. There is an urgent need to develop the 
efficient NDM-1 inhibitors of various mode of action thereby necessitating 
structural studies of the enzyme as well as analysis of the secretion pathway 
and localization of the protein. The recombinant full-length NDM-1 is produced 
in E. coli in the inactive form and is mostly accumulated in the inclusion 
bodies. The secreted recombinant NDM-1 forms are several N-terminally truncated 
species. The robust expression system capable of high-level production of the 
full-length NDM-1 and derivatives thereof is required to obtain NDM-1 in the 
quantities necessary for drug discovery, diagnostics, and research purposes. 
Therefore, we developed a new system that utilizes antibiotic pressure to select 
E. coli producing increased quantity of soluble NDM-1 and showed that an 
increase in the NDM-1 solubility occurs in the bacterial clones producing 
increased amounts in the chaperones.

PMID: 24645273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Jan;75(1):75-82. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.08.012. Epub 
2010 Sep 9.

A new tagged-TEV protease: construction, optimisation of production, 
purification and test activity.

Miladi B(1), Bouallagui H, Dridi C, El Marjou A, Boeuf G, Di Martino P, Dufour 
F, Elm'Selmi A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Ecole de Biologie Industrielle, 32 Bd du 
Port, Cergy 95094, France.

The Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) protease is frequently used in the cleavage of 
recombinant fusion proteins because of its efficiency and high specificity. In 
this work, we present a new recombinant form of TEV termed Streptag II-TEV for 
high-level production and purification of TEV protease from Escherichia coli and 
compare it to the hexahistidine (6xHis) tagged version of TEV. The effects of 
varying the host strain, the bacterial induction temperature (25, 30 and 37°C) 
and the IPTG inducer concentration on production and solubility of the two 
recombinant TEV proteases have been examined. Optimal Streptag II-TEV protein 
expression were obtained in the E. coli KRX strain under an induction 
temperature of 25°C in the presence of IPTG at 0.5 mM. In these conditions, 
soluble Streptag II-TEV and 6xHis-TEV proteases accounted for about 25% and 18% 
of total soluble proteins, respectively. About 70% of Streptag II-TEV and 60% of 
6xHis-TEV were detected in the supernatant. Streptag II-TEV protease purifies to 
near homogeneity (approximately 99%) via a simple, single step Strep-Tactin 
chromatography purification protocol based on the presence of Streptag II. The 
higher production of Streptag II-TEV coupled to its purification and cleavage 
efficiencies make it an attractive alternate to 6xHis-TEV.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.08.012
PMID: 20817099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Sep;30(9):956-9.

[Preparation and characterization of monoclonal antibodies against S100A9].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Y(1), Li X(1), Zuo W(1), Chi J(1), Liu G(1), Sun L(1), Jiang J(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Antibody Engineering, Beijing Proteome Research Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Beijing 102206, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against S100A9, and 
characterize these antibodies' properties for functional studies.
METHODS: We amplified cDNA fragment of S100A9 from adult human liver sample, 
then constructed the vectors pGEX-4T-1-S100A9 and pET-32a-S100A9 for protein 
expression. The S100A9 protein fused respectively with the His-tag and GST-tag 
were expressed in E.coli and purified for immunizing mice as antigen and 
hybridoma screening, respectively. After hybriodma screening, the titer of mAbs 
was determined by ELISA and the specificity was identified by Western blotting 
and indirect immunofluorescence technique.
RESULTS: Both GST-tagged and His-tagged S100A9 fusion proteins were successfully 
constructed and expressed in E.coli. Eighteen hybridoma cell strains secreting 
S100A9 mAbs were obtained, of which 15 showed strong positive reaction but 3 
showed weak positive reaction to the recombinant protein in Western blotting. 
Two hybridoma cell strains were capable of binding to S100A9 native protein in 
tumor tissue interstitial fluid.
CONCLUSION: We successfully prepared the mAbs against S100A9 protein, which 
provide the useful tool for further study on biological function and clinical 
detection of S100A9.

PMID: 25200158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. AMB Express. 2017 Oct 30;7(1):192. doi: 10.1186/s13568-017-0493-z.

Production of bioactive liver-targeting interferon Mu-IFN-CSP by soluble 
prokaryotic expression.

Liu A(1)(2)(3), Gui S(4), Zhang L(1)(2), Chen Z(1)(2), Tang Y(1)(2), Xiao 
M(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Liu W(1)(2), Jin X(1)(2), Zhu J(1)(2), Lu X(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Courses, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, 280 Wai Huan 
Dong Road, Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou, 510006, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Bioactive Substances, 
280 Wai Huan Dong Road, Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou, 
510006, People's Republic of China.
(3)Pharmaceutical College, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, 280 Wai Huan 
Dong Road, Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou, 510006, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)Intensive Care Unit, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518031, People's Republic of China.
(5)School of Basic Courses, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, 280 Wai Huan 
Dong Road, Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou, 510006, People's 
Republic of China. luxuemei605@163.com.
(6)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Bioactive Substances, 
280 Wai Huan Dong Road, Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou, 
510006, People's Republic of China. luxuemei605@163.com.

A novel liver-targeting interferon (IFN-CSP) was successfully over-expressed in 
our previous work. The in vitro and in vivo investigation revealed that IFN-CSP 
has significant anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) effect and liver-targeting 
capacity. However, due to the IFN-CSP tends to form inclusion bodies in 
recombinant Escherichia coli (E. coli), efficient production of the soluble 
liver-targeting interferon is a challenge. In view of biomedical application, 
novel strategies for efficiently expressing liver-targeting interferon and 
overcoming its poor solubility are necessary and important. In the present 
study, a modified mu-IFN-CSP was designed base on the amino acid mutant of the 
native IFN-CSP. Meanwhile, the coding sequence of mu-IFN-CSP was optimized for 
E. coli preferred codon and the induction conditions for expression were 
optimized by an orthogonal test. After amino acid mutant, codon optimization and 
induction conditions optimization, the solubility of Mu-IFN-CSP in E. coli was 
up to 98.4%. The structural comparison and molecular dynamic simulation showed 
that the Mu-IFN-CSP formed three structure changes and were more stable than the 
native IFN-CSP. Tissue sections binding assays revealed that Mu-IFN-CSP was also 
able to specific binding to liver. In vitro anti-HBV activity assays showed that 
the soluble Mu-IFN-CSP has improved anti-HBV effect in HepG2.2.15 cells compared 
to the native IFN-CSP. The present study reports for the first time that 
liver-targeting interferon Mu-IFN-CSP can be expressed as soluble form, and also 
contributes to further support its application as liver-targeting anti-HBV 
medicine.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-017-0493-z
PMCID: PMC5662524
PMID: 29086199


510. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Jan 1;508(1):250-255. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.11.087. Epub 2018 Nov 24.

Production of extracellular PETase from Ideonella sakaiensis using sec-dependent 
signal peptides in E. coli.

Seo H(1), Kim S(1), Son HF(1), Sagong HY(1), Joo S(1), Kim KJ(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, KNU Creative BioResearch Group, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu, 41566, Republic of Korea; KNU Institute for Microorganisms, 
Kyungpook National University, Daegu, 41566, Republic of Korea.
(2)School of Life Sciences, KNU Creative BioResearch Group, Kyungpook National 
University, Daegu, 41566, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: kkim@knu.ac.kr.

Poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) is the most commonly used polyester polymer 
resin in fabrics and storage materials, and its accumulation in the environment 
is a global problem. The ability of PET hydrolase from Ideonella sakaiensis 
201-F6 (IsPETase) to degrade PET at moderate temperatures has been studied 
extensively. However, due to its low structural stability and solubility, it is 
difficult to apply standard laboratory-level IsPETase expression and 
purification procedures in industry. To overcome this difficulty, the expression 
of IsPETase can be improved by using a secretion system. This is the first 
report on the production of an extracellular IsPETase, active against PET film, 
using Sec-dependent translocation signal peptides from E. coli. In this work, we 
tested the effects of fusions of the Sec-dependent and SRP-dependent signal 
peptides from E. coli secretory proteins into IsPETase, and successfully 
produced the extracellular enzyme using pET22b-SPMalE:IsPETase and 
pET22b-SPLamB:IsPETase expression systems. We also confirmed that the secreted 
IsPETase has PET-degradation activity. The work will be used for development of 
a new E. coli strain capable of degrading and assimilating PET in its culture 
medium.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.11.087
PMID: 30477746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Pharm Res. 2010 Feb;27(2):224-34. doi: 10.1007/s11095-009-9995-y. Epub 2009 Oct 
28.

Rational design of multiple TB antigens TB10.4 and TB10.4-Ag85B as subunit 
vaccine candidates against Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Shi S(1), Yu L, Sun D, Liu J, Hickey AJ.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-7360, USA.

PURPOSE: Rational design of recombinant antigens TB10.4 and TB10.4-Ag85B as 
subunit vaccine candidates against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The main purpose 
is to obtain a large quantity of soluble antigens.
METHODS: Recombinant antigens were cloned in frame with the N-terminal 
thioredoxin and expressed in E. coli. The thioredoxin tag was removed by TEV 
protease. Nickel-affinity and size-exclusion chromatography were used to purify 
antigens to homogeneity. Antigen stability at different pH levels was studied by 
photon correlation spectrometry. Circular dichroism was used to probe antigen 
secondary structure and thermal stability.
RESULTS: N-terminal thioredoxin fusion dramatically increased antigen 
solubility. Soluble TB10.4 and TB10.4-Ag85B were purified to homogeneity and 
obtained in milligram quantity. Co-expression of bacteria chaperons increased 
the yield of TB10.4-Ag85B. Soluble TB10.4 and TB10.4-Ag85B purified from the 
inclusion body showed a reversible structure change. However, Ag85B and soluble 
TB10.4-Ag85B showed a clear melting temperature, above which the secondary 
structure was lost dramatically.
CONCLUSION: Soluble TB10.4 and TB10.4-Ag85B were purified from the E. coli in 
significant quantities. The methods to purify and characterize these recombinant 
antigens were established, which paved the way for further vaccine development 
based on these antigens.

DOI: 10.1007/s11095-009-9995-y
PMID: 19862606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Protein Expr Purif. 2022 Jun;194:106060. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2022.106060. Epub 
2022 Feb 6.

Tetrahymena thermophila granule lattice protein 3 improves solubility of sexual 
stage malaria antigens expressed in Escherichia coli.

Akkale C(1), Cassidy-Hanley DM(2), Clark TG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA; Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of 
Engineering, Adana Alparslan Türkeş Science and Technology University, Adana, 
Turkey. Electronic address: cakkale@atu.edu.tr.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.

The requirement for low cost manufacturing makes bacterial cells a logical 
platform for the production of recombinant subunit vaccines for malaria. 
However, protein solubility has been a major stumbling block with prokaryotic 
expression systems. Notable examples include the transmission blocking vaccine 
candidates, Pfs25 and Pfs48/45, which are almost entirely insoluble when 
expressed as recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli. Various solubility tags 
have been used with limited success in improving solubility, although recent 
studies with granule lattice protein 1 (Grl1p) from the ciliated protozoan, 
Tetrahymena thermophila, have shown promise. Here, we examine a related 
solubility tag, granule lattice protein 3 (Grl3p) from T. thermophila, and 
compare it to both Grl1p and the well-studied maltose binding protein (MBP) used 
to improve the solubility of multiple protein targets. We find that Grl3p 
performs comparably to Grl1p when linked to Pfs25 but significantly improves 
solubility when paired with Pfs48/45.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2022.106060
PMID: 35134517


513. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2008 Sep;39(5):697-700.

[Polyclonal antibody preparation and characterization of mouse Rnf141].

[Article in Chinese]

Song HX(1), Zhang SZ, Yang JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain the Rnf141 polyclonal antibody and to study its function.
METHODS: Rnf141 cDNA was obtained by PCR amplification and inserted into the 
expression vector pGEX-5X-3, which encoding the GST protein to generate a 
recombinant plasmid. The recombinant was transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3). 
After inducing with 1 mmol/L IPTG at 25 degrees C, the GST-Rnf141 fusion protein 
was expressed at a high level as a soluble form. Purified fusion protein with 
Glutathione Sephorase 4B chromatography was applied to immune rabbits to prepare 
the polyclonal antibody. Western blot and immunohistochemistry were applied to 
confirm the specificity of the resulting antibody.
RESULTS: pGEX-Rnf141 recombinant plasmid was constructed successfully and the 
resulting. GST-Rnf141 fusion protein could be expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) at 
a relatively high level, standing for 46% of total bacteria protein. The titer 
of the antiserum was 1:128000 and the polyclonal antibody could recognize 
GST-Rnf141 fusion protein and Rnf141 protein in different tissues of mouse. The 
high expression of Rnf141 protein was observed in spleen and brain of mouse.
CONCLUSION: Rnf141 polyclonal antibody was prepared successfully and this will 
provide material for further studies of Rnf141 expression and function.

PMID: 19024293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2011 Jul 10;49(2):124-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2011.04.013. Epub 2011 Apr 22.

A novel Escherichia coli solubility enhancer protein for fusion expression of 
aggregation-prone heterologous proteins.

Song JA(1), Lee DS, Park JS, Han KY, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea.

Through the proteome analysis of Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), we previously 
identified the stress-responsive protein, arsenate reductase (ArsC), that showed 
a high cytoplasmic solubility and a folding capacity even in the presence of 
stress-inducing reagents. In this study, we used ArsC as an N-terminal fusion 
partner to synthesize nine aggregation-prone proteins as water-soluble forms. As 
a result, solubility of the aggregation-prone proteins increased dramatically by 
the fusion of ArsC, due presumably to its tendency to facilitate the folding of 
target proteins. Also, we evaluated and confirmed the efficacy of ArsC-fusion 
expression in making the fusion-expressed target proteins have their own native 
function or structure. That is, the self-assembly function of human ferritin 
light chain, l-arginine-degrading function of arginine deiminase, and the 
correct secondary structure of human granulocyte colony stimulating factor were 
clearly observed through transmission electron microscope analysis, colorimetric 
enzyme activity assay, and circular dichroism, respectively. It is strongly 
suggested that ArsC can be in general an efficient fusion expression partner for 
the production of soluble and active heterologous proteins in E. coli.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2011.04.013
PMID: 22112398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2012 Mar;28(3):305-19.

[Influence of nagE and manX knockout with red homologous recombination on the 
microbial production of glucosamine by Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen X(1), Liu L, Li J, Liu J, Du G, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.

Glucosamine (GlcN), also called amino sugar, is a compound derived from the 
substitution of a hydroxyl group of glucose molecule with an amino group. GlcN 
finds a wide-range of applications in health food and pharmaceutical industries. 
In our previous research, a recombinant Escherichia coli-glms-gnal was 
constructed for the efficient production of GlcN and N-acetylglucosamine 
(GlcNAc), the latter can be readily deacetylated to GlcN under mild acidic 
conditions. However, the results indicated that the titer of GlcN and GlcNAc 
decreased significantly due to the transportation of GlcN and GlcNAc from the 
culture broth to the inside of cells. To alleviate or block the transportation 
process, nagE gene (encoding for the GlcNAc-specific transporter) and manX gene 
(encoding for the mannose transporter) were knocked out with the Red homologous 
recombination method, and two engineered strains, E. coli-glms-gna1-delta nagE 
(with nagE gene deletion) and E. coli-glms-gna1-delta nagE-delta manX (with nagE 
and manX genes deletion), were successfully constructed. The two strains were 
cultured in a 7-L fermentor for the production of GlcN and GlcNAc. The maximal 
GlcN concentration of control strain E. coli-glms-gnal reached 4.06 g/L, and the 
maximal GlcNAc concentration reached 41.46 g/L. The maximal GlcN and GlcNAc 
concentration of E. coli-glms-gna1-delta nagE reached 4.38 g/L and 71.80 g/L, 
respectively, which were 1.08-fold and 1.70-fold of those of E. coli-glms-gnal, 
respectively. The maximal GlcN and GlcNAc concentration of E. 
coli-glms-gnal-delta nagE-delta manX reached 4.82 g/L and 118.78 g/L, 
respectively, which were 1.20-fold and 2.86-fold of those of E. coli-glms-gnal, 
respectively. These results suggested that the deletion of nagE and manX could 
significantly increase the extracellular accumulation of GlcN and GlcNAc. The 
results obtained here maybe useful for the microbial GlcN production in an 
industrial scale.

PMID: 22712389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Nov;37(11):1032-1037.

[Preparation and identification of rat polyclonal antibody against SARS-CoV-2 
main protease (Mpro)].

[Article in Chinese]

Yan G(1), Qi H(1), Yan H(1), Fu Z(1), Liu X(2), Chen Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Drug Screening and Evaluation, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
241002, China.
(2)Institute for Drug Screening and Evaluation, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
241002, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: liuxiaoping@wnmc.edu.cn.
(3)Institute for Drug Screening and Evaluation, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
241002, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: chenyunyu1984@163.com.

Objective To investigate the immunological functions of SARS-CoV-2 main protease 
(Mpro) in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), polyclonal antibody against Mpro 
was developed. Methods A codon-optimized SARS-CoV-2 Mpro gene was synthesized 
and ligated into a pET-28a vector for construction of a recombinant plasmid 
named by pET-28a-Mpro. Subsequently, this plasmid was transformed into E.coli 
Rosetta (DE3) competent cells for Mpro expression in an optimized condition, and 
then Mpro was purified using a HisTrap chelating column. The purified Mpro was 
used as immunogen to inoculate rats and the serum was collected after third 
immunization cycle. The titer, selectivity and sensitivity of polyclonal 
antibody against Mpro were analyzed using the ELISA and Western blot analysis. 
Results An optimized expression condition in E.coli cells for Mpro was 
determined, and the recombinant Mpro was purified by a HisTrap chelating column. 
The ELISA and Western blot analysis demonstrated that the highly sensitive 
polyclonal antibody against Mpro specially recognized the recombinant Mpro, and 
the titer reached 1:256 000. Conclusion The highly specific polyclonal antibody 
against SARS-CoV-2 Mpro is successfully prepared, which lays an experimental 
foundation for investigating the immunological function of Mpro in COVID-19.

PMID: 34809743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2009 Jul;25(4):245-50.

[Production of human papillomavirus type 16 virus-like particles and its 
immunogenicity].

[Article in Chinese]

Wei MX(1), Li SW, Huang B, Shen WT, Su YZ, Zhang CH, Gu Y, Du HL, Zhang J, Xia 
NS.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in Infectious 
Diseases, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, China. wmx@xmu.edu.cn

HPV16 L1 gene was amplified from HPV16 positive vaginal secretion sample by PCR, 
and inserted into pTO-T7 to obtain the recombinant expression vector 
pTO-T7-HPV16-L1. Then, the pTO-T7-HPV16-L1 was transformed into E. coil strain 
ER2566 and the recombinant protein HPV16 L1 was expressed in soluble form. After 
purification by ammonium sulfate precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography, and 
hydrophobic interaction chromatography, the recombinant protein HPV16 L1 had a 
purity of more than 98%. By removing DTT, purified HPV16 L1 proteins 
self-assembled in vitro into VLPs with the diameter of 50 nm. The vaccination 
experiments on experimental animals showed the VLPs could elicit high titer of 
neutralizing antibodies against HPV 16. HPV16 VLPs with high immunogenicity and 
high purity can be produced easily and effectively from an E. coli expression 
system in the study, and thus can be used in structure investigation and HPV16 
vaccine development.

PMID: 19769155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Microb Cell Fact. 2010 Aug 28;9:63. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-63.

Protein solubility and differential proteomic profiling of recombinant 
Escherichia coli overexpressing double-tagged fusion proteins.

Cheng CH(1), Lee WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Systems Biology and Tissue Engineering 
Research Center, National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi 621, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of recombinant proteins usually triggers the 
induction of heat shock proteins that regulate aggregation and solubility of the 
overexpressed protein. The two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE)-mass 
spectrometry approach was used to profile the proteome of Escherichia coli 
overexpressing N-acetyl-D-glucosamine 2-epimerase (GlcNAc 2-epimerase) and 
N-acetyl-D-neuraminic acid aldolase (Neu5Ac aldolase), both fused to glutathione 
S-transferase (GST) and polyionic peptide (5D or 5R).
RESULTS: Overexpression of fusion proteins by IPTG induction caused significant 
differential expression of numerous cellular proteins; most of these proteins 
were down-regulated, including enzymes connected to the pentose phosphate 
pathway and the enzyme LuxS that could lead to an inhibition of tRNA synthesis. 
Interestingly, when plasmid-harboring cells were cultured in LB medium, 
gluconeogenesis occurred mainly through MaeB, while in the host strain, 
gluconeogenesis occurred by a different pathway (by Mdh and PckA). Significant 
up-regulation of the chaperones ClpB, HslU and GroEL and high-level expression 
of two protective small heat shock proteins (IbpA and IbpB) were found in cells 
overexpressing GST-GlcNAc 2-epimerase-5D but not in GST-Neu5Ac 
aldolase-5R-expressing E. coli. Although most of the recombinant protein was 
present in insoluble aggregates, the soluble fraction of GST-GlcNAc 
2-epimerase-5D was higher than that of GST-Neu5Ac aldolase-5R. Also, in cells 
overexpressing recombinant GST-GlcNAc 2-epimerase-5D, the expression of σ32 was 
maintained at a higher level following induction.
CONCLUSIONS: Differential expression of metabolically functional proteins, 
especially those in the gluconeogenesis pathway, was found between host and 
recombinant cells. Also, the expression patterns of chaperones/heat shock 
proteins differed among the plasmid-harboring bacteria in response to 
overproduction of recombinant proteins. In conclusion, the solubility of 
overexpressed recombinant proteins could be enhanced by maintaining the 
expression of σ32, a bacterial heat shock transcription factor, at higher levels 
during overproduction.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-63
PMCID: PMC2940792
PMID: 20799977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Biotechnol Lett. 2009 Nov;31(11):1745-52. doi: 10.1007/s10529-009-0073-7. Epub 
2009 Jul 10.

GroES and GroEL are essential chaperones for refolding of recombinant human 
phospholipid scramblase 1 in E. coli.

Sahu SK(1), Rajasekharan A, Gummadi SN.

Author information:
(1)Applied and Industrial Microbiology Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, 
Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, Chennai, 600 036, India.

Human phospholipid scramblase 1(hPLSCR1), when expressed in E. coli (BL-21 DE3), 
forms inclusion bodies that are functionally inactive. We studied the effects of 
various stress inducing agents and chaperones on soluble expression of hPLSCR1 
in E. coli (BL-21 DE3). Addition of 3% (v/v) ethanol before induction and 
decreasing the post-induction temperature to 15 degrees C increased the 
solubility of hPLSCR1 to approximately 10 and approximately 15% respectively. 
Presence of groES-groEL complex solubilized the hPLSCR1 to approximately 30% of 
the total hPLSCR1. Absence of groES-groEL did not improve the solubility of 
hPLSCR1 suggesting that groES and groEL are the essential chaperones for the 
correct folding of hPLSCR1 when over-expressed in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-009-0073-7
PMID: 19590828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2012 Jan;35(1-2):255-63. doi: 10.1007/s00449-011-0619-7. 
Epub 2011 Oct 16.

Effects of L-arginine on refolding of lysine-tagged human insulin-like growth 
factor 1 expressed in Escherichia coli.

Choi SP(1), Park YC, Lee J, Sim SJ, Chang HN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, 
136-701, Korea.

Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), a therapeutic protein, is highly homologous 
to proinsulin in 3-dimensional structure. To highly express IGF1 in recombinant 
Escherichia coli, IGF1 was engineered to be fused with the 6-lysine tag and 
ubiquitin at its N-terminus (K6Ub-IGF1). Fed-batch fermentation of E. coli 
TG1/pAPT-K6Ub-IGF1 resulted in 60.8 g/L of dry cell mass, 18% of which was 
inclusion bodies composed of K6Ub-IGF1. Subsequent refolding processes were 
conducted using accumulated inclusion bodies. An environment of 50 mM bicine 
buffer (pH 8.5), 125 mM L-arginine, and 4 °C was chosen to optimize the 
refolding of K6Ub-IGF1, and 240 mg/L of denatured K6Ub-IGF1 was refolded with a 
32% yield. The positive effect of L-arginine on K6Ub-IGF1 refolding might be 
ascribed to preventing unfolded K6Ub-IGF1 from undergoing self-aggregation and 
thus increasing its solubility. The simple dilution refolding, followed by 
cleavage of the fusion protein by site-specific UBP1 and chromatographic 
purification of IGF1, led production of authentic IGF1 with 97% purity and an 
8.5% purification yield, starting from 500 mg of inclusion bodies composed of 
K6Ub-IGF1, as verified by various analytical tools, such as RP-HPLC, CD 
spectroscopy, MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, and Western blotting. Thus, it was 
confirmed that L-arginine with an aggregation-protecting ability could be 
applied to the development of refolding processes for other inclusion 
body-derived proteins.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-011-0619-7
PMID: 22002161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Aug;29(8):838-41.

[Preparation of polyclonal antibody to nucleoprotein from Xinjiang hemorrhagic 
fever virus and its immunological evaluation].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu D(1), Li Y, Zhao J, Wu T, Sun S.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify the nucleoprotein (NP) from Xinjiang 
hemorrhagic fever virus(XHFV) strain BA88166 in E.coli, and prepare and identify 
its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The cDNA of S gene segment of BA88166 strain was amplified by RT-PCR 
and cloned into prokaryotic expression vector pET-32a to generate a recombinant 
plasmid named pET-88166S. The pET-88166S was transformed into E.coli BL21 (DE3). 
The NP-His fusion protein was induced by IPTG, purified by Ni-NTA purification 
system, and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. To prepare the antiserum, New Zealand white 
rabbits were immunized with the purified NP-His protein. The titer and 
specificity of the antiserum to NP were analyzed by ELISA and Western blotting, 
respectively.
RESULTS: Restriction endonuclease analysis and DNA sequencing showed that the 
prokaryotic xpression vector of pET-88166S was constructed successfully. NP-His 
fusion protein was expressed in E.coli BL21 (DE3) after IPTG induction and its 
relative molecular mass (Mr;) was about 66 000. ELISA and Western blotting 
showed that the titers of the antisera were above 1:25 600, and that the 
antisera can specifically bind with the entire and truncated NP protein of XHFV 
strain YL04057.
CONCLUSION: NP-His fusion protein can be successfully expressed in E.coli and 
the specific anti-NP rabbit polyclonal antibody has been obtained, which will 
provide the basic information for the studies on the diagnosis, treatment and 
prevention of Xinjiang hemorrhagic fever.

PMID: 23948410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2019 May;35(5):459-464.

[Purification of Nelson Bay virus S3 protein and preparation of rat polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang X(1), Chen J(1), Tao X(1), Dou L(1), Tong W(1), Zhao W(1), Liu N(1), Li 
Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathogenic Biology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Jinzhou 
Medical University, Jinzhou 121000, China.
(2)Department of Pathogenic Biology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Jinzhou 
Medical University, Jinzhou 121000, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
lygjo@hotmail.com.

Objective To prepare a polyclonal antibody against S3 of Nelson Bay virus (NBV). 
Methods The E.coli BL21 (DE3) competent cells were transfected with the 
constructed Pris His MB-S3 recombinant plasmid. Protein expression was induced 
by IPTG. The target protein was purified by Ni-NTA column affinity 
chromatography to obtain a large amount of fusion recombinant protein, which was 
tested and used as the antigen for producing the S3 polyclonal antibody in rats. 
Results The relative molecular mass (Mr) of Pris His MB-S3 protein was around 39 
000, in the form of inclusion bodies. NBV S3 polyclonal antibody was 
successfully produced from the immunized rats. The titer of the antibody was up 
to 1:64 000 determined by indirect ELISA. The indirect immunofluorescence assay 
verified that the S3 protein was successfully expressed in cells and distributed 
in a granular form in the cytoplasm. Conclusion The highly reactive and specific 
S3 protein polyclonal antibody is successfully prepared.

PMID: 31223114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr. 2006 Oct;62(Pt 10):1218-26. doi: 
10.1107/S0907444906031337. Epub 2006 Sep 19.

Recombinant protein expression and solubility screening in Escherichia coli: a 
comparative study.

Berrow NS(1), Büssow K, Coutard B, Diprose J, Ekberg M, Folkers GE, Levy N, Lieu 
V, Owens RJ, Peleg Y, Pinaglia C, Quevillon-Cheruel S, Salim L, Scheich C, 
Vincentelli R, Busso D.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Protein Production Facility, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, 
Oxford, England.

Producing soluble proteins in Escherichia coli is still a major bottleneck for 
structural proteomics. Therefore, screening for soluble expression on a small 
scale is an attractive way of identifying constructs that are likely to be 
amenable to structural analysis. A variety of expression-screening methods have 
been developed within the Structural Proteomics In Europe (SPINE) consortium and 
to assist the further refinement of such approaches, eight laboratories 
participating in the network have benchmarked their protocols. For this study, 
the solubility profiles of a common set of 96 His(6)-tagged proteins were 
assessed by expression screening in E. coli. The level of soluble expression for 
each target was scored according to estimated protein yield. By reference to a 
subset of the proteins, it is demonstrated that the small-scale result can 
provide a useful indicator of the amount of soluble protein likely to be 
produced on a large scale (i.e. sufficient for structural studies). In general, 
there was agreement between the different groups as to which targets were not 
soluble and which were the most soluble. However, for a large number of the 
targets there were wide discrepancies in the results reported from the different 
screening methods, which is correlated with variations in the procedures and the 
range of parameters explored. Given finite resources, it appears that the 
question of how to most effectively explore ;expression space' is similar to 
several other multi-parameter problems faced by crystallographers, such as 
crystallization.

DOI: 10.1107/S0907444906031337
PMID: 17001098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2010 Dec;29(6):525-9. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0063. Epub 2010 
Nov 18.

Expression, antibody generation, and biological analysis of chicken 
interleukin-18.

Zhang H(1), Li G, Ren X.

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northeast Agricultural University, Xiangfang 
District, Harbin, China.

The gene encoding mature chicken interleukin-18 (ChIL-18) was cloned into 
prokaryotic expression vector pET-30a(+), resulting in a recombinant plasmid 
pET-30a-ChIL-18. After pET-30a-ChIL-18 was transformed into Escherichia coli 
Rosseta, the expression of ChIL-18 induced by 1 mM IPTG at 37°C was analyzed by 
sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The expressed fusion 
protein of 26 kDa was purified with a Ni-NTA affinity column and used to 
generate a hyperimmune antiserum in a rabbit. The specificity and titer of 
anti-ChIL-18 serum were analyzed by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
Western blot and immunofluorescence assays indicated that the anti-ChIL-18 
antibody specifically reacted with the ChIL-18 expressed from E. coli or 
ChIL-18-transfected eukaryotic cells. Moreover, the renatured ChIL-18 stimulated 
the production of nitric oxide (NO) from macrophages via eliciting the secreting 
of IFN-γ from lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0063
PMID: 21087100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Biotechnol. 2013 Dec;168(4):506-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2013.09.019. Epub 
2013 Oct 4.

Employment of colorimetric enzyme assay for monitoring expression and solubility 
of GST fusion proteins targeted to inclusion bodies.

Mačinković IS(1), Abughren M, Mrkic I, Grozdanović MM, Prodanović R, 
Gavrović-Jankulović M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Belgrade, Studentski trg 12-16, Belgrade, 
Serbia; Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Egerlandstraße 1, 
Erlangen, Germany.

High levels of recombinant protein expression can lead to the formation of 
insoluble inclusion bodies. These complex aggregates are commonly solubilized in 
strong denaturants, such as 6-8M urea, although, if possible, solubilization 
under milder conditions could facilitate subsequent refolding and purification 
of bioactive proteins. Commercially available GST-tag assays are designed for 
quantitative measurement of GST activity under native conditions. GST fusion 
proteins accumulated in inclusion bodies are considered to be undetectable by 
such assays. In this work, solubilization of recombinantly produced proteins was 
performed in 4M urea. The activity of rGST was assayed in 2M urea and it was 
shown that rGST preserves 85% of its activity under such denaturing conditions. 
A colorimetric GST activity assay with 1-chloro-2, 4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was 
examined for use in rapid detection of expression targeted to inclusion bodies 
and for the identification of inclusion body proteins which can be solubilized 
in low concentrations of chaotropic agents. Applicability of the assay was 
evaluated by tracking protein expression of two GST-fused allergens of 
biopharmaceutical value in E. coli, GST-Der p 2 and GST-Mus a 5, both targeted 
to inclusion bodies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2013.09.019
PMID: 24100211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jan;45(1):88-98. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.010.

A C-terminal glycine suppresses production of pleurocidin as a fusion peptide in 
Escherichia coli.

Bryksa BC(1), MacDonald LD, Patrzykat A, Douglas SE, Mattatall NR.

Author information:
(1)NRC Institute for Marine Biosciences, National Research Council Canada, 
Halifax, NS, Canada B3H 3Z1.

The winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) antimicrobial peptide 
pleurocidin was produced in Escherichia coli using a synthetic gene constructed 
by PCR. The gene expresses pleurocidin from pET21a fused to the C-terminus of an 
insoluble carrier peptide. Once expressed, the fusion peptide formed inclusion 
bodies in the cytoplasm that were collected, solubilized in guanidine-HCl, and 
chemically cleaved using hydroxylamine at a unique asparaginyl-glycyl dipeptide. 
This released recombinant pleurocidin (r-pleurocidin), which was purified using 
ultrafiltration followed by reverse phase chromatography. The r-pleurocidin 
peptide resolved as a single band (2.7 kDa) when analyzed by Tris-Tricine 
buffered SDS-PAGE, and its amino acid sequence was confirmed using tandem mass 
spectrometry. Extending the pleurocidin sequence with a C-terminal glycine 
(r-pleurocidin-G) suppressed production of the fusion peptide 15-fold. When 
pleurocidin was extended further to include aspartate (r-pleurocidin-GD), the 
same effect was observed, and when pleurocidin was extended with aspartate 
alone, no effect was observed. Expression of fusion peptide containing either 
r-pleurocidin-G or r-pleurocidin-GD with low concentrations of inductant caused 
E. coli to enter stationary phase prematurely, but did not affect overall growth 
rates. A partial production recovery of r-pleurocidin-G was achieved by inducing 
expression in stationary phase cells. We observed r-pleurocidin-G to have 
enhanced antimicrobial activity compared with r-pleurocidin, and we propose that 
this activity interferes with E. coli metabolism during expression. This 
antimicrobial effect is probably facilitated by residual solubility of the 
fusion peptide and by a C-terminal cap structure, which stabilizes the 
r-pleurocidin-G alpha-helix that is thought to be important for activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.010
PMID: 15935695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2013 Nov;29(6):621-31.

[Prokaryotic expression of pig nuclear transcription factor-kappaB p65/p50 and 
its impacts on PRRSV proliferation].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang XD(1), Zhu L(2), Cai YH(2), Huang P(2), Xu ZW(2).

Author information:
(1)Animal Biotechnology Center, Sichuan Agricultural University, Ya'an 625014, 
China. wangxiaodi2350@163.com
(2)Animal Biotechnology Center, Sichuan Agricultural University, Ya'an 625014, 
China.

This study aims to express pig nuclear transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) 
p65/p50 fusion protein in E. coli Rosetta, and study its impacts on PRRSV 
proliferation in vitro. The p65 ORF and mature p50 encoding gene were amplified 
by RT-PCR, the products were cloned into the pET-21a(+) vector, then transformed 
into Escherichia coli Rosetta, recombinant fusion protein was expressed by IPTG 
induction, the expressed product was identified by SDS-PAGE and Western-Blot. 
The purified and re-folded p65/p50 was added to the 2% FBS DMEM, and the 
cytotoxicity on Marc145 was observed to select the optimum concentration. The 
effects of optimum concentration of p65/p50 on PRRSV proliferation activity were 
investigated by detecting PRRSV infection phase in the culture supernatant using 
real-time FQ-PCR method and drawing PRRSV one-step growth curve. The results 
showed the p65/p50-pET21a(+) prokaryotic expression vector were successfully 
constructed , recombinant p50 and p65 fusion protein was expressed abundantly in 
the form of inclusion body with molecular weight of 70kD, Western-Blot results 
showed that the rabbit anti-human p50 polyclonal serum, rabbit anti-human p65 
purified antibody could bind specifically to p50 and p65 respectively. The 
optimum concentration of p65/p50 was 0.4 microg/mL. The real-time FQ-PCR results 
indicated that NF-kappaB p65/p50 could promote CPE appearance and PRRSV 
proliferation before CPE appeared, and suppress PRRSV proliferation after CPE 
appeared, and lower the virus titer levels significantly(P < 0.05). These 
results will provide some new insight of the pathogenic mechanism and treatment 
strategies of PRRS.

PMID: 24520768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Oct 1;160:69-76. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.05.159. 
Epub 2020 May 21.

Production and characterization of low molecular weight heparosan in Bacillus 
megaterium using Escherichia coli K5 glycosyltransferases.

Nehru G(1), Tadi SRR(1), Limaye AM(2), Sivaprakasam S(3).

Author information:
(1)Bioprocess Analytical Technology Laboratory, Department of Biosciences and 
Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam, India.
(2)Molecular Endocrinology Laboratory, Department of Biosciences and 
Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam, India.
(3)Bioprocess Analytical Technology Laboratory, Department of Biosciences and 
Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam, India. 
Electronic address: senthilkumar@iitg.ac.in.

Low molecular weight heparosan is an un-sulfated polysaccharide primarily used 
as a precursor for heparin synthesis that has recently been used in drug 
delivery applications. Heparosan synthesis from recombinant bacterial systems 
provides a safer alternative to naturally producing pathogenic bacterial 
systems. In this study, we engineered a functional heparosan synthesis pathway 
in Bacillus megaterium by the expression of E. coli K5 kfiC and kfiA 
glycosyltransferase genes. Upregulation of individual UDP-sugar precursor 
pathway genes enhanced the heparosan production, indicating that UDP-precursor 
sugar concentrations were limiting the biosynthesis. The engineered B. 
megaterium yielded a maximum heparosan concentration of 394 mg/L in batch 
bioreactor. The heparosan titer was further increased to 1.32 g/L in fed-batch 
fermentation. Nuclear magnetic resonance analysis revealed that the chemical 
structure of B. megaterium derived heparosan was identical to E. coli K5 
heparosan. The heparosan molecular weight varied from 31 to 60 kDa, indicating 
its potential as a precursor for chemoenzymatic heparin biosynthesis. This study 
provides an efficient process to produce heparosan from non-pathogenic B. 
megaterium.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.05.159
PMID: 32445821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
(Ganesh Nehru, Subbi Rami Reddy Tadi, and Senthilkumar Sivaprakasam) declare the 
following competing financial interest(s): Indian patent application filed for 
the “Recombinant Bacillus megaterium for production of heparin precursors” 
(Patent Application No. 201831017897). Other authors declare no competing 
interests.


529. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2010 Jul;33(4):333-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.cimid.2008.12.004. Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Expression of biologically active recombinant equine interferon-gamma in 
Escherichia coli.

Bai Y(1), Tong T, Liu G, Chen W, Zhang W, Wang Q, Yang T, Bu Z, Wu D.

Author information:
(1)Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Harbin 150001, PR China.

Interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) is a pleiotropic cytokine that is recognized as an 
important modulator of the immune response. To date, there is no report that 
prokaryocyte-derived recombinant equine IFN-gamma has antiviral activity. In 
this report, the gene coding equine IFN-gamma (EIFN-gamma) mature protein was 
cloned into pET-28a (+) and the recombinant EIFN-gamma was expressed in 
Escherichia coli (E. coli). The antiviral activity of expressed recombinant 
EIFN-gamma was evaluated by using a recombinant Vesicular Stomatitis Virus 
expressing green fluorescence protein (rVSV-GFP) system in the equine fetal 
kidney-78 cell line (EFK-78). The GFP expression in the EFK-78 cells 
dramatically decreased in the cells treated with EIFN-gamma in a dose-dependent 
manner, comparing with the mock-treated cells. The titer of antiviral activity 
was 1 x 10(3)AU/ml. These results demonstrated that the EIFN-gamma expressed in 
this study had good biological activity. Pure forms and sufficient quantities of 
biologically active IFN-gamma could facilitate the study of its activities in 
modulating immune responses both in vivo and in vitro.

(c) 2009. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2008.12.004
PMID: 19278727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2004;5(1-2):119-31. doi: 
10.1023/B:JSFG.0000029200.66197.0c.

Expression screening, protein purification and NMR analysis of human protein 
domains for structural genomics.

Folkers GE(1), van Buuren BN, Kaptein R.

Author information:
(1)Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular Research, Utrecht University, Padualaan 8, 
3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands. gert@nmr.chem.uu.nl

Structural genomics, the determination of protein structures on a genome-wide 
scale, is still in its infancy for eukaryotes due to the number and size of 
their genes. Low protein expression and solubility of eukaryotic geneproducts 
are the major bottlenecks in high-throughput (HTP) recombinant protein 
production with the E. coli expression systems. To circumvent this problem we 
decided to focus on separate protein domains. We describe here a fast 
microtiterplate based, expression and solubility screening procedure, using a 
combination of in vitro and in vivo expression, and purification with nickel-NTA 
magnetic beads. All steps are optimized for automatic HTP processing using a 
liquid handling station. Furthermore, large-scale expression and protein 
purification conditions are optimized, permitting the purification of 24 protein 
samples per week. We further show that results obtained from the expression 
screening can be extrapolated to the production of protein samples for NMR. 
Starting with 81 cloned human protein domains, in vivo expression was detected 
in 54 cases, and from 28 of those milligrams of protein were purified. An 
informative HSQC spectrum was recorded for 18 proteins (22%), half of which were 
indicative of a folded protein. The success rate and quality of the HSQC spectra 
suggest that the domain approach holds promise for human proteins.

DOI: 10.1023/B:JSFG.0000029200.66197.0c
PMID: 15263851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Nov;44(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.008.

High expression and purification of the recombinant camelid anti-MUC1 single 
domain antibodies in Escherichia coli.

Rahbarizadeh F(1), Rasaee MJ, Forouzandeh-Moghadam M, Allameh AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modarres University, Tehran, Iran.

In contrast to the murine and human VHs, camels' single domain antibodies (sdAb) 
have sufficient solubility. These antigen-specific fragments are expressed well 
in Escherichia coli. Here, we report high expression and purification of sdAbs 
against MUC1 mucin. MUC1 is a high molecular weight glycoprotein with an 
aberrant expression profile in various malignancies. The sdAb genes were 
sub-cloned into a pET32a(+) vector to overexpress the protein coupled with 
fusion tags in E. coli BL21(DE3). The expressed single domain antibodies were 
purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography and antigen affinity 
chromatography. Analysis by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting demonstrated the 
integrity of the sdAbs-tags, while ELISA results confirm that the activity of 
these molecules compare favorably with that of the parent recombinant 
antibodies. Enterokinase treated sdAb showed a band at the molecular weight 
around 12 kDa which demonstrated the naked protein in its natural structure with 
activities comparable to that of native protein. The high binding activity to 
MUC1 antigen purified from ascitic fluid (of patients with small-cell lung 
aggressive carcinoma and metastasis to peritoneum) and the very close similarity 
of these molecules to human VHs illustrated the potential application of these 
novel products as an immunodiagnostic and immunotherapeutic reagent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.008
PMID: 15922625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Mar 10;19(1):64. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01322-3.

Effect of DR1558, a Deinococcus radiodurans response regulator, on the 
production of GABA in the recombinant Escherichia coli under low pH conditions.

Park SH(1), Sohn YJ(2), Park SJ(3), Choi JI(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Interdisciplinary Program for 
Bioenergy & Biomaterials, Chonnam National University, 77 Yongbong-ro, Gwangju, 
61186, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Ewha Womans 
University, 52 Ewhayeodae-gil, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 03760, Republic of Korea.
(3)Division of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Ewha Womans 
University, 52 Ewhayeodae-gil, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 03760, Republic of Korea. 
parksj93@ewha.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Interdisciplinary Program for 
Bioenergy & Biomaterials, Chonnam National University, 77 Yongbong-ro, Gwangju, 
61186, Republic of Korea. choiji01@jnu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an important platform chemical, 
which has been used as a food additive and drug. Additionally, GABA is a 
precursor of 2-pyrrolidone, which is used in nylon synthesis. GABA is usually 
synthesized from glutamate in a reaction catalyzed by glutamate decarboxylase 
(GAD). Currently, there are several reports on GABA production from monosodium 
glutamate (MSG) or glucose using engineered microbes. However, the optimal pH 
for GAD activity is 4, which is the limiting factor for the efficient microbial 
fermentative production of GABA as fermentations are performed at pH 7. 
Recently, DR1558, a response regulator in the two-component signal transduction 
system was identified in Deinococcus radiodurans. DR1558 is reported to confer 
cellular robustness to cells by binding the promoter regions of genes via 
DNA-binding domains or by binding to the effector molecules, which enable the 
microorganisms to survive in various environmental stress conditions, such as 
oxidative stress, high osmotic shock, and low pH.
RESULTS: In this study, the effect of DR1558 in enhancing GABA production was 
examined using two different strategies: whole-cell bioconversion of GABA from 
MSG and direct fermentative production of GABA from glucose under acidic culture 
conditions. In the whole-cell bioconversion, GABA produced by E. coli expressing 
GadBC and DR1558 (6.52 g/L GABA from 13 g/L MSG·H2O) in shake flask culture at 
pH 4.5 was 2.2-fold higher than that by E. coli expressing only GadBC (2.97 g/L 
of GABA from 13 g/L MSG·H2O). In direct fermentative production of GABA from 
glucose, E. coli ∆gabT expressing isocitrate dehydrogenase (IcdA), glutamate 
dehydrogenase (GdhA), GadBC, and DR1558 produced 1.7-fold higher GABA (2.8 g/L 
of GABA from 30 g/L glucose) than E. coli ∆gabT expressing IcdA, GdhA, and GadBC 
(1.6 g/L of GABA from 30 g/L glucose) in shake flask culture at an initial pH 
7.0. The transcriptional analysis of E. coli revealed that DR1558 conferred acid 
resistance to E. coli during GABA production. The fed-batch fermentation of E. 
coli expressing IcdA, GdhA, GadBC, and DR1558 performed at pH 5.0 resulted in 
the final GABA titer of 6.16 g/L by consuming 116.82 g/L of glucose in 38 h.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report to demonstrate GABA production by acidic 
fermentation and to provide an engineering strategy for conferring acid 
resistance to the recombinant E. coli for GABA production.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01322-3
PMCID: PMC7063819
PMID: 32156293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


533. BMC Vet Res. 2019 Sep 2;15(1):313. doi: 10.1186/s12917-019-2059-6.

Development of a quick dot blot assay for the titering of bovine ephemeral fever 
virus.

Cheng LT(1), Zeng YJ(1), Chu CY(2), Wang HY(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Animal Vaccine Technology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1, Shuehfu 
Road, Neipu, Pingtung, 91201, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(2)Graduate Institute of Animal Vaccine Technology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1, Shuehfu 
Road, Neipu, Pingtung, 91201, Taiwan, Republic of China. 
cychu@mail.npust.edu.tw.
(3)Graduate Institute of Animal Vaccine Technology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1, Shuehfu 
Road, Neipu, Pingtung, 91201, Taiwan, Republic of China. hyw@mail.npust.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Bovine ephemeral fever virus (BEFV) causes fever and muscle 
stiffness in cattle, resulting in negative economic impact for cattle and dairy 
farms. During the manufacturing process of inactivated vaccine for virus 
control, it is important to determine the virus titer, but traditional methods 
such as plaque assay and TCID50 assay require days of waiting time. We sought to 
develop a quick dot blot assay for BEFV titering.
RESULTS: Three different kinds of BEFV antigens were prepared to raise primary 
antibodies for BEFV detection in dot blot assays: 1) purified BEFV particles, 2) 
Escherichia coli (E. coli)-expressed BEFV G1 region, and 3) E. coli-expressed 
BEFV N protein. Results showed that antibodies raised against purified BEFV 
particles can detect BEFV particles, but it also showed a high background level 
from the proteins of BHK-21 cells. Antibodies raised against E.coli-expressed 
BEFV G1 region could not detect BEFV particles in dot blot assays. Finally, 
antibodies raised against E.coli-expressed BEFV N protein detected BEFV 
particles with a high signal-to-noise ratio in dot blot assays.
CONCLUSIONS: E.coli-expressed N protein is a suitable antigen for the production 
of antiserum that can detect BEFV particles with a high signal-to-noise ratio. A 
dot blot assay kit using this antiserum can be developed as a quick and 
economical way for BEFV titering.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-019-2059-6
PMCID: PMC6720828
PMID: 31477093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


534. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Oct;28(10):2937-43. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-012-1104-4. Epub 2012 Jun 20.

Design of a recombinant Escherichia coli for producing L-phenylalanine from 
glycerol.

Thongchuang M(1), Pongsawasdi P, Chisti Y, Packdibamrung K.

Author information:
(1)Program in Biotechnology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

A recombinant Escherichia coli was engineered to produce the commercially 
important amino acid L-phenylalanine (L-Phe) using glycerol as the carbon 
source. Compared to the conventionally used glucose and sucrose, glycerol is a 
less expensive carbon source. As phenylalanine dehydrogenase (PheDH) activity is 
involved in the last step of L-Phe synthesis in E. coli, a phenylalanine 
dehydrogenase gene (phedh) from the thermotolerant Bacillus lentus was cloned 
into pRSFDuet-1 (pPheDH) and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3). The resulting clone 
had a limited ability to produce L-Phe from glycerol, possibly because of a poor 
glycerol uptake by the cell, or an inability to excrete L-Phe, or both. 
Therefore, yddG gene encoding an aromatic amino acid exporter and glpF gene 
encoding a glycerol transport facilitator were coexpressed with the phedh in a 
reengineered E. coli. In a glycerol medium, the maximum L-Phe production rates 
of the clones pPY (phedh and yddG genes) and pPYF (phedh, yddG and glpF genes) 
were 1.4- and 1.8-fold higher than the maximum production rate of the pPheDH 
clone. The better producing pPYF clone was further evaluated in a 5 l 
stirred-tank fermenter (37 °C, an aeration rate of 1 vvm, an agitation speed of 
400 rpm). In the fermenter, the maximum concentration of L-Phe (366 mg/l) was 
achieved in a much shorter period compared to in the shake flasks. In the 
latter, the highest titer of L-Phe was only 76 % of the maximum value attained 
in the fermenter.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-012-1104-4
PMID: 22806734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2007 Sep;274(1):132-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6968.2007.00824.x. Epub 2007 Jul 3.

Enhanced solubility of heterologous proteins by fusion expression using 
stress-induced Escherichia coli protein, Tsf.

Han KY(1), Song JA, Ahn KY, Park JS, Seo HS, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, 
South Korea.

Through two-dimensional electrophoresis, Escherichia coli proteome response to a 
protein denaturant, guanidine hydrochloride, was analyzed and elongation factor 
Ts (Tsf) detected as a stress-induced protein. Many host proteins aggregated, or 
their synthesis levels decreased significantly under conditions of protein 
denaturation as 34 out of 699 soluble proteins knocked out and 63 proteins 
decreased by over 2.5-fold. Interestingly, the expression level of Tsf increased 
1.61-fold compared with a nonstress condition. Contrary to direct expression, 
various heterologous proteins were solubly expressed in E. coli when subjected 
to N-terminus fusions of Tsf. Owing most likely to an intrinsic high folding 
efficiency, Tsf seemed to play critical roles in sequestering interactive 
surfaces of heterologous proteins from nonspecific protein-protein interactions 
leading to formation of inclusion bodies. It has been also demonstrated that Tsf 
is effective in aiding the production of a biologically active bacterial 
cutinase, which could be of interest to biotechnology and commercial 
applications.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2007.00824.x
PMID: 17608803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 May;157:28-35. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.01.010. Epub 
2019 Jan 30.

Expression of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase from M. tuberculosis in 
E. coli. Purification and characteristics of the untagged recombinant enzyme.

Schmalhausen EV(1), Shumkov MS(2), Muronetz VI(3), Švedas VK(3).

Author information:
(1)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Lenin's Hills 1 Bldg.40, Moscow, 119234, Russian Federation. 
Electronic address: shmal@belozersky.msu.ru.
(2)Bach Institute of Biochemistry, Research Center of Biotechnology of the 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky Prospect, 33, Build. 2, Moscow, 119071, 
Russian Federation.
(3)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Lenin's Hills 1 Bldg.40, Moscow, 119234, Russian Federation.

The goal of the present work was to produce glyceraldehyde-3-phospate 
dehydrogenase from M. tuberculosis in E. coli cells in soluble and catalytically 
active form and to elaborate a method for the purification of the recombinant 
enzyme. The His-tagged recombinant enzyme (Mtb-GAPDH_His) was shown to be 
inactive and insoluble. The untagged enzyme (Mtb-GAPDH) was catalytically active 
and exhibited higher solubility. Mtb-GAPDH was purified from the cell extract 
using ammonium sulfate fractionation and ion-exchange chromatography. The 
presence of glycerol was necessary for isolation of Mtb-GAPDH, presumably, to 
facilitate folding of the recombinant enzyme. The yield of Mtb-GAPDH constituted 
1.3 mg per 10 g of the cell biomass. The specific activity of the purified 
Mtb-GAPDH was 55 ± 5 μmol NADH/min per mg protein (pH 9.0, 22 °C) that exceeded 
the activity of the previously described preparation of His-tagged recombinant 
GAPDH from M. tuberculosis that was co-expressed with GroEL/ES chaperone by 
approximately 5-fold. The results suggest that the folding of the recombinant 
GAPDH is hindered by the His-tag, which may result in the production of 
insoluble protein or in isolation of the preparation with decreased specific 
activity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.01.010
PMID: 30710621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2021 Oct 25. doi: 10.1002/bab.2273. Online ahead of 
print.

Structure-based engineering of an antiangiogenic scFv antibody for soluble 
production in E. coli without loss of activity.

Denizci Öncü M(1)(2), Balcıoğlu BK(1), Özgür B(1), Öztürk HÜ(1), Serhatlı M(1), 
Işık Ş(3), Erdağ B(4), Dinler Doğanay G(2), Özdemir Bahadır A(1).

Author information:
(1)Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology Institute, Marmara Research Center, The 
Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey, Kocaeli, Turkey.
(2)Molecular Biology and Genetics Department, İstanbul Technical University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Medical Biotechnology Department, Acıbadem University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Health Sciences Department, İstanbul Aydın University, Istanbul, Turkey.

Development of monoclonal antibody therapeutics against vascular endothelial 
growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) protein, which is the main regulator in 
angiogenesis, has been a major challenge for years. In the current study, we 
engineer an inclusion body forming single-chain variable fragment (scFv) against 
VEGFR-2 by using complementarity determining regions (CDR) grafting technique to 
improve its solubility and investigate the activity of the engineered molecule. 
CDR sequences of the target scFv were grafted into the framework of another 
intrinsically soluble scFv molecule. Based on the computational results, CDR 
grafting has increased the solubility of the grafted scFv molecule. Results 
confirmed that the grafting approach increased in vivo folding properties of the 
target scFv molecule compared with the original scFv molecule. Similar binding 
affinities to the VEGFR-2 were observed for the original and the grafted scFv by 
surface plasmon resonance assays. Biological activity assays, including human 
umbilical vein endothelial cells proliferation and wound healing assays, showed 
that grafted scFv molecule has an antiangiogenic property. This study suggests 
that an antiangiogenic scFv fully expressed as an inclusion body can be rescued 
by grafting its CDR regions to a scFv expressed in a soluble form without any 
loss in its binding property and its activity.

© 2021 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.2273
PMID: 34694021


538. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Dec;86(2):127-34. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.09.006. Epub 
2012 Sep 25.

Expression and purification of SfaX(II), a protein involved in regulating 
adhesion and motility genes in extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli.

Paracuellos P(1), Ohman A, Sauer-Eriksson AE, Uhlin BE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

Pathogenic Escherichia coli strains commonly harbor genes involved in formation 
of fimbriae, such as the sfa(II) fimbrial gene cluster found in uropathogenic 
and newborn meningitis isolates. The sfaX(II) gene, located at the distal end of 
the sfa(II) operon, was recently shown to play a role in controlling 
virulence-related gene expression in extraintestinal pathogenic E. coli (ExPEC). 
Until now, detailed characterization of the SfaX(II) protein has been hampered 
by difficulties in obtaining large quantities of soluble protein. By a rational 
modeling approach, we engineered a Cys70Ser mutation, which successfully 
improved solubility of the protein. Here, we present the expression, 
purification, and initial characterization of the recombinant SfaX(IIC70S) 
mutant. The protein was produced in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells grown in 
autoinduction culture media. The plasmid vector harbored DNA encoding the 
SfaX(IIC70S) protein N-terminally fused with a six histidine (H6) sequence 
followed by a ZZ tag (a derivative of the Staphylococcus protein A) (H6-ZZ tag). 
The H6-ZZ tag was cleaved off with Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) protease and the 166 
amino acid full-length homo-dimeric protein was purified using affinity and 
size-exclusion chromatography. Electrophoretic mobility gel shift assays and 
atomic force microscopy demonstrated that the protein possesses DNA-binding 
properties, suggesting that the transcriptional regulatory activity of SfaX(II) 
can be mediated via direct binding to DNA.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.09.006
PMID: 23022032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2012 Jan;28(1):51-6.

[Prokaryotic expression and identification of HPV16 E7 protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Jia YY(1), Yin YL, Bai CG, Fu H, Gao YF, Pan ZM, Jiao XA.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Zoonosis; Ministry of Education, Key Lab for Avian 
Preventive Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225009, China.

HPV16 E7 fusion protein was expressed in E. coli BL21, and its applied value for 
HPV was evaluated. HPV16 E7 gene was amplified by PCR, and cloned into 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX6p-1. The recombinant plasmid was transformed 
into E. coli BL21, and HPV16 E7 fusion was expressed through IPTG induction. The 
expressed product was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot, subsequently 
purified according to Glutathione Sepharose 4B purification procedure. An 
indirect ELISA with the purified fusion protein as the coating antigen was then 
established to detect E7 serum antibodies from mice immunized with recombinant 
Listeria monocytogenes delivering HPV16 E7. The results demonstrated that the 
soluble fusion protein was highly expressed at 25 degrees C after induction with 
0.5 mM IPTG. Furthermore, the result of Western blot analysis showed that the 
fusion protein had good specific reaction with an anti-E7 monoclonal antibody. 
Indirect ELISA result confirmed that the fusion protein could detect the serum 
antibodies against E7 with a titer of 1:200. The expressed GST-E7 fusion protein 
was immunocompetent, which was useful in the research of E7 biological function 
and therapeutic vaccine.

PMID: 22416350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Metab Eng Commun. 2019 Dec 9;10:e00117. doi: 10.1016/j.mec.2019.e00117. 
eCollection 2020 Jun.

Improving heterologous protein expression in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 for 
alpha-bisabolene production.

Sebesta J(1), Peebles CA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Colorado State University, 
Fort Collins, CO, 80523, USA.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins, CO, 80523, USA.

Cyanobacterial biofuels have the potential to reduce the cost and climate 
impacts of biofuel production because primary carbon fixation and conversion to 
fuel are completed together in the cultivation of the cyanobacteria. 
Cyanobacterial biofuels, therefore, do not rely on costly organic carbon 
feedstocks that heterotrophs require, which reduces competition for agricultural 
resources such as arable land and freshwater. However, the published product 
titer achieved for most molecules of interest using cyanobacteria lag behind 
what has been achieved using yeast and Escherichia coli (E. coli) cultures. In 
Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (S. 6803), we attempted to increase the product titer 
of the sesquiterpene, bisabolene, which may be converted to bisabolane, a 
possible diesel replacement. We tested 19 strains of genetically modified S. 
6803 with five different codon usage sequences of the bisabolene synthase from 
the grand fir tree (Abies grandis). At least three ribosome binding sites (most 
designed using the RBS Calculator) were tested for each codon usage sequence. We 
also tested strains with and without the farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase gene 
from E. coli. Bisabolene titers after five days of growth in continuous light 
ranged from un-detected to 7.8 ​mg/L. Bisabolene synthase abundance was measured 
and found to be well correlated with titer. Select strains were also tested in 
12:12 light:dark cycles, where similar titers were reached after the same amount 
of light exposure time. One engineered strain was also tested in 
photobioreactors exposed to a simulated outdoor light pattern with maximum light 
intensity of 1600 ​μmol photons m-2 s-1. Here, the bisabolene titer reached 
22.2 ​mg/L after 36 days of growth. Dramatic improvements in our ability to 
control gene expression in cyanobacteria such as S. 6803, and the co-utilization 
of additional metabolic engineering methods, are needed in order for these 
titers to improve to the levels reported for engineered E. coli.

© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mec.2019.e00117
PMCID: PMC6940699
PMID: 31908923

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


541. Glycoconj J. 2013 Jul;30(5):511-22. doi: 10.1007/s10719-012-9451-9. Epub 2012 
Oct 6.

Engineering, conjugation, and immunogenicity assessment of Escherichia coli O121 
O antigen for its potential use as a typhoid vaccine component.

Wetter M(1), Kowarik M, Steffen M, Carranza P, Corradin G, Wacker M.

Author information:
(1)GlycoVaxyn AG, Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland.

State-of-the-art production technologies for conjugate vaccines are complex, 
multi-step processes. An alternative approach to produce glycoconjugates is 
based on the bacterial N-linked protein glycosylation system first described in 
Campylobacter jejuni. The C. jejuni N-glycosylation system has been successfully 
transferred into Escherichia coli, enabling in vivo production of customized 
recombinant glycoproteins. However, some antigenic bacterial cell surface 
polysaccharides, like the Vi antigen of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi, have 
not been reported to be accessible to the bacterial oligosaccharyltransferase 
PglB, hence hamper development of novel conjugate vaccines against typhoid 
fever. In this report, Vi-like polysaccharide structures that can be transferred 
by PglB were evaluated as typhoid vaccine components. A polysaccharide 
fulfilling these requirements was found in Escherichia coli serovar O121. 
Inactivation of the E. coli O121 O antigen cluster encoded gene wbqG resulted in 
expression of O polysaccharides reactive with antibodies raised against the Vi 
antigen. The structure of the recombinantly expressed mutant O polysaccharide 
was elucidated using a novel HPLC and mass spectrometry based method for 
purified undecaprenyl pyrophosphate (Und-PP) linked glycans, and the presence of 
epitopes also found in the Vi antigen was confirmed. The mutant O antigen 
structure was transferred to acceptor proteins using the bacterial 
N-glycosylation system, and immunogenicity of the resulting conjugates was 
evaluated in mice. The conjugate-induced antibodies reacted in an enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay with E. coli O121 LPS. One animal developed a significant 
rise in serum immunoglobulin anti-Vi titer upon immunization.

DOI: 10.1007/s10719-012-9451-9
PMID: 23053636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Microb Cell Fact. 2019 Jan 14;18(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s12934-019-1053-9.

Evaluation of scFv protein recovery from E. coli by in vitro refolding and mild 
solubilization process.

Sarker A(1), Rathore AS(1), Gupta RD(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, South Asian University, New 
Delhi, India.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, South Asian University, New 
Delhi, India. rdgupta@sau.ac.in.

BACKGROUND: The production of therapeutically active single chain variable 
fragment (scFv) antibody is still challenging in E. coli due to the aggregation 
propensity of recombinant protein into inclusion bodies (IBs). However, recent 
advancement of biotechnology has shown substantial recovery of bioactive protein 
from such insoluble IBs by solubilization and refolding processes. In addition, 
gene fusion technology has also widely been used to improve the soluble protein 
production using E. coli. This study demonstrates that mild-solubilization and 
in vitro refolding strategies, both are capable to recover soluble scFv protein 
from bacterial IBs, although the degree of success is greatly influenced by 
different fusion tags with the target protein.
RESULTS: It was observed that the most commonly used fusion tag, i.e., maltose 
binding protein (MBP) was not only influenced the cytoplasmic expression in E. 
coli but also greatly improved the in vitro refolding yield of scFv protein. On 
the other hand, mild solubilization process potentially could recover soluble 
and functional scFv protein from non-classical IBs without assistance of any 
fusion tag and in vitro refolding step. The recovery yield achieved by mild 
solubilization process was also found higher than denaturation-refolding method 
except while scFv was refolded in fusion with MBP tag. Concomitantly, it was 
also observed that the soluble protein achieved by mild solubilization process 
was better structured and functionally more active than the one achieved by in 
vitro refolding method in the absence of MBP tag or refolding enhancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Maltose binding protein tagged scFv has shown better refolding and 
solubility yields as compare to mild solubilization process. However, in terms 
of cost, time and tag free nature, mild solubilization method for scFv recovery 
from bacterial IBs is considerable for therapeutic application and further 
structural studies.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-019-1053-9
PMCID: PMC6330739
PMID: 30642336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Aug;24(8):795-7.

[Expression of procalcitonin and characterization of antibodies against PCT].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Q(1), Guo YR, Liu Y, Liu XL, Liu J, Zhong F, Gao JE, Sun QH.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Beijing Proteome Research Center, 
Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing 102206, China. qiliu_angel@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To construct the expression vectors of procalcitonin (PCT), prepare 
polyclonal antibodies (pAbs) and monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against PCT and 
identify their specific biological activity.
METHODS: The recombinant expression plasmids of pGEX-4T-1-PCT and PET-32a-PCT 
were constructed using thyroid carcinoma cell line (TT cell) cDNA as template. 
The fusion protein of His-PCT was expressed in E.coli and used as immunogen. The 
specificity of antiserum against human PCT was characterized by ELISA, Western 
blot and indirect immunofluorescence. The mAbs against human PCT were identified 
by Western blot and indirect immunofluorescence.
RESULTS: The recombinant expression plasmids of pGEX-4T-1-PCT and PET-32a-PCT 
were constructed and the fusion protein of His-PCT was expressed and purified. 
The antiserum against human PCT was prepared and the titer detected by ELISA was 
1:256 000. The pAb specifically recognized the recombinant human PCT. Eight 
hybridoma cell lines secreting specific mAbs against PCT were established. The 
mAbs recognized the recombinant human PCT and four of them recognized the native 
PCT of TT cytoplasm in immunofluorescent assay.
CONCLUSION: The successful preparation of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies 
against human PCT is beneficial to further research into the pathological and 
physiological functions of PCT in severe bacterial infection and sepsis.

PMID: 18687221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. BMC Biotechnol. 2006 Mar 1;6:12. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-6-12.

A family of E. coli expression vectors for laboratory scale and high throughput 
soluble protein production.

Cabrita LD(1), Dai W, Bottomley SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, 3800, Australia. 
lisa.cabrita@med.monash.edu.au

BACKGROUND: In the past few years, both automated and manual high-throughput 
protein expression and purification has become an accessible means to rapidly 
screen and produce soluble proteins for structural and functional studies. 
However, many of the commercial vectors encoding different solubility tags 
require different cloning and purification steps for each vector, considerably 
slowing down expression screening. We have developed a set of E. coli expression 
vectors with different solubility tags that allow for parallel cloning from a 
single PCR product and can be purified using the same protocol.
RESULTS: The set of E. coli expression vectors, encode for either a 
hexa-histidine tag or the three most commonly used solubility tags (GST, MBP, 
NusA) and all with an N-terminal hexa-histidine sequence. The result is 
two-fold: the His-tag facilitates purification by immobilised metal affinity 
chromatography, whilst the fusion domains act primarily as solubility aids 
during expression, in addition to providing an optional purification step. We 
have also incorporated a TEV recognition sequence following the solubility tag 
domain, which allows for highly specific cleavage (using TEV protease) of the 
fusion protein to yield native protein. These vectors are also designed for 
ligation-independent cloning and they possess a high-level expressing T7 
promoter, which is suitable for auto-induction. To validate our vector system, 
we have cloned four different genes and also one gene into all four vectors and 
used small-scale expression and purification techniques. We demonstrate that the 
vectors are capable of high levels of expression and that efficient screening of 
new proteins can be readily achieved at the laboratory level.
CONCLUSION: The result is a set of four rationally designed vectors, which can 
be used for streamlined cloning, expression and purification of target proteins 
in the laboratory and have the potential for being adaptable to a 
high-throughput screening.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-6-12
PMCID: PMC1420288
PMID: 16509985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Iran J Biotechnol. 2018 Apr 18;16(1):e1482. doi: 10.21859/ijb.1482. eCollection 
2018 Apr.

Optimization of EnBase Fed-Batch Cultivation to Improve Soluble Fraction Ratio 
of α-Luffin Ribosome Inactivating Protein.

Barkhordari F(1)(2), Raigani M(1), Garoosi YT(1), Mahboudi F(1), Davami F(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, Science and Technology Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The increase of the protein expression via ribosomal manipulation is 
one of the suggested cellular mechanisms involved in EnBase fed-batch mode of 
cultivation. However, this system has not been implemented for cytotoxic 
proteins.
OBJECTIVES: Here, the expression pattern of α-Luffin, a ribosome inactivation 
protein (RIP) with an innate toxicity, was investigated in EnBase system and the 
effect of low temperature cultivation on the increase of α-Luffin solubility was 
determined.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The encoding cDNA for mature α-Luffin was synthesized and 
subcloned into pET28a plasmid under the control of T7 promoter. The E. coli 
expression yield in EnBase® Flo fed-batch system was compared with traditional 
batch mode at two temperatures: 25 °C and 30 °C. Sampling was performed at 
several time intervals and solubility of recombinant-protein was checked on 
SDS-PAGE in pellet and supernatant samples. The purification of recombinant 
protein was performed by Ni-NTA column.
RESULTS: In fed-batch cultivation mode, the early incubation time was desirable 
at 30 °C whereas the maximum amount of soluble α-Luffin was achieved from the 
extended protein synthesis period (12 and 24h post induction) at 25 °C.
CONCLUSIONS: Our founding showed that EnBase had a greater efficacy in producing 
higher soluble protein ratios compared to batch cultivation growth rate, however 
for cytotoxic proteins, incubation temperature and time need to be optimized. 
Owing to the advantages of natural toxins from RIP family for producing 
anticancer immune-conjugates, well optimization of this protein expression is of 
importance regarding industrial aspects. The optimized condition proposed here 
is promising in terms of large scale soluble production of α-Luffin without the 
need for refolding.

DOI: 10.21859/ijb.1482
PMCID: PMC6217263
PMID: 30555837


546. Metab Eng. 2015 Mar;28:43-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2014.12.002. Epub 2014 Dec 
17.

Improvement of catechin production in Escherichia coli through combinatorial 
metabolic engineering.

Zhao S(1), Jones JA(2), Lachance DM(3), Bhan N(4), Khalidi O(5), Venkataraman 
S(6), Wang Z(7), Koffas MAG(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA; The SATCM Key Laboratory for New Resources and 
Quality Evaluation of Chinese, Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201203, China. Electronic 
address: zhaoshujuan@126.com.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA. Electronic address: jonesj12@rpi.edu.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY 
12180, USA. Electronic address: lachad2@rpi.edu.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA. Electronic address: namitab86@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA. Electronic address: khalio2@rpi.edu.
(6)Chromadex Inc., 2830 Wilderness Place, Boulder, CO 80301, USA. Electronic 
address: syleshv@chromadex.com.
(7)The SATCM Key Laboratory for New Resources and Quality Evaluation of Chinese, 
Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Shanghai 201203, China; The MOE Key Laboratory for Standardization of 
Chinese Medicines and Medicines, Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201210, China. Electronic 
address: ztwang@shutcm.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA; Department of Biological Sciences, Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY 12180, USA. Electronic address: koffam@rpi.edu.

Reconstruction of highly efficient biosynthesis pathways is essential for the 
production of valuable plant secondary metabolites in recombinant 
microorganisms. In order to improve the titer of green tea catechins in 
Escherichia coli, combinatorial strategies were employed using the ePathBrick 
vectors to express the committed catechin pathway: flavanone 3β-hydroxylase 
(F3H), dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), and leucoanthocyanidin reductase 
(LAR). Three F3H, three DFR, and two LAR genes originating from different plant 
species were selected and synthesized, to create 18 pathway variants to be 
screened in E. coli. Constructs containing F3H(syn) originally from Camellia 
sinensis, DFR(syn) from Anthurium andraeanum, C. sinensis, or Fragaria ananass, 
and LAR(syn) from Desmodium uncinatum (p148, p158 and p168) demonstrated high 
conversion efficiency with either eriodictyol or naringenin as substrate. A 
highly efficient construct was created by assembling additional copies of 
DFR(syn) and LAR(syn) enabling a titer of 374.6 ± 43.6 mg/L of (+)-catechin. 
Improving the NADPH availability via the ΔpgiΔppc mutation, BLΔpgiΔppc-p148 
produced the highest titer of catechin at 760.9 ± 84.3 mg/L. After utilizing a 
library of scaffolding proteins, the strain BLΔpgiΔppc-p168-759 reached the 
highest titer of (+)-catechin of 910.9 ± 61.3 mg/L from 1.0 g/L of eriodictyol 
in batch culture with M9 minimal media. The impact of oxygen availability on the 
biosynthesis of catechin was also investigated.

Copyright © 2014 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2014.12.002
PMID: 25527438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Sep;26(9):871-3.

[Preparation of rabbit antibody against human Id3 and identification of 
intracellular localization of Id3 in tumor cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Li XJ(1), Zhong AF, Wang K, Jia L, Chen FF, Yu W.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Jinling Hospital, Nanjing 210002, 
China. lixiaojun62@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To express and purify the recombinant human inhibitor of differentiation 3 
(Id3) in E.coli and prepare rabbit polyclonal antibody against Id3.
METHODS: The expression vector Id3/pET32a was transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3) 
and expression of histidine (His)-tagged Id3 fusion protein was induced with 
IPTG and confirmed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot techniques. Id3 fusion protein 
was purified through immolbilized Ni(2+); absorption chromatographic column.The 
purified protein was used to immunize rabbits.The titer and specificity of 
rabbit antisera were evaluated by immunodouble gel diffusion, ELISA and Western 
blot techniques. The collected rabbit antisera were purified with polypeptide 
affinity column. The intracellular distributions of Id3 expression in human 
human breast cancer cells (MCF7), prostate cancer cells (PC-3M) and lung 
adenocarcinoma cells (A549) were observed by indirect immunofluorescence 
assay(IFA).
RESULTS: Id3 fusion protein with 6xhis-tag was successfully expressed in E.coli 
BL 21. The expressed Id3 with the relative molecular mass size of 34 kD was 
purified specifically through affinity chromatographic column and confirmed by 
Western blot. The titers of the rabbit anti-Id3 polyclonal antibodies were 1:8 
by immunodouble gel diffusion and 1:8 000 by ELISA. Western blot revealed that 
the prepared antisera reacted specifically with Id3. IFA showed that in A549 , 
MCF7 and PC-3M cells, Id3 was mainly distributed in nucleoplasm and the Id3 
expression level was significantly higher in MCF7 and PC-3M than in A549 cells.
CONCLUSION: The expression and purification of human Id3 protein and preparation 
of polyclonal antibody against Id3 provide useful tools for the further study of 
Id3.

PMID: 20815983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2010 Feb;29(1):37-43. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2009.0058.

Simple method of monoclonal antibody production against mammalian cellular prion 
protein.

Liu YS(1), Ding YZ, Zhang J, Chen HT, Zhu XL, Cai XP, Liu XT, Xie QG.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Virology of Ministry of Agriculture, State Key 
Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, Lanzhou Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.

Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against prion protein (PrP) are powerful tools for 
diagnosis and research in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Ten MAbs to 
recombinant/native cellular PrP (PrPc) in mammals were prepared with a simple 
method and identified in detail. Normal BALB/c mice were immunized with the 
recombinant bovine mature PrP (rbomPrP) and PrP27-30 (rboPrP27-30) expressed in 
Escherichia coli. The immunized splenocytes were fused with SP2/0 mouse myeloma 
cells, and positive hybridomas were selected by indirect enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The characterizations of these MAbs, such as Ig, Ig 
subclass, titer, affinity index, specificity, epitopes recognized, and binding 
to recombinant/native PrPc of cattle, sheep, or human beings, were evaluated by 
Western blotting and indirect or sandwich ELISA. Ten MAbs could be divided into 
five groups depending on the results of indirect ELISA additivity test and their 
reaction to E. coli-expressed truncated-PrPs. Isotyping of the MAbs revealed 
that they belong to IgG1, IgG2a, and IgG2b subclass. Their indirect ELISA titers 
were between 10(3) and 10(6). Affinity constants were between 10(9) and 10(12) 
M(-1). Ten MAbs specifically reacted with the rbomPrP, without binding to 
prion-like protein Doppel and the lysates of E. coli. These MAbs could also 
respond to the recombinant mature PrP (rmPrP) of sheep and human beings. Also of 
interest was the ability of the MAbs to bind with dimer of rmPrP and PrP 
extracted from the brain tissue of cattle or sheep. We conclude that anti-PrP 
MAbs successfully prepared with a simple method could potentially be useful in 
mammalian prion research.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2009.0058
PMID: 20199150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2002;20(3):158-60.

[Expression and characterization of 21.7 kDa membrane protein of Schistosoma 
japonicum].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Ningbo University School of Medicine, Ningbo 315211.

OBJECTIVE: To express, purify and characterize the 21.7 kDa membrane protein of 
Chinese strain S. japonicum (SjC21.7).
METHODS: The gene of SjC21.7 was subcloned into the expression vector pGEX-4T-3 
to form recombinant plasmid. The recombinant plasmids were transformed into E. 
coli BL21 and the GST-SjC21.7 fusion protein was expressed by IPTG induction. 
The recombinant SjC21.7 molecule was prepared by affinity chromatography and 
digested by thrombin. The Kunming strain mice were immunized with the 
recombinant SjC21.7 molecule to produce anti-SjC21.7 antibody. The purified 
SjC21.7 was recognized by the immunized mouse serum and the sera of rabbits 
infected by S. japonicum.
RESULTS: The SjC21.7 gene was subcloned into expression vector pGEX-4T-3, then 
transformed into E. coli BL21 to express the GST-SjC21.7 fusion protein. The 
recombinant SjC21.7 molecule obtained from the fusion protein could stimulate 
the mice to produce a high titer of specific antibody and could be recognized by 
sera of both the immunized and infected rabbits. The sera of immunized mice 
could also recognize the 21.7 kDa protein molecule of the adult worm antigen 
(AWA).
CONCLUSION: The recombinant and purified SjC21.7 was prepared and showed similar 
immunological characteristics to the natural SjC21.7 molecule, providing a basis 
for further investigation of the immunological protection of the recombinant 
SjC21.7.

PMID: 12567994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2002 Aug;59(4-5):523-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-002-1043-3. Epub 2002 Jun 27.

Comparison of green fluorescent protein expression in two industrial Escherichia 
coli strains, BL21 and W3110, under co-expression of bacterial hemoglobin.

Kang DG(1), Kim YK, Cha HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Division of Molecular and Life 
Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Korea.

Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb) has been successfully used to enhance production 
of foreign proteins in several microorganisms including Escherichia coli. We 
compared the expression of an oxygen-dependent foreign protein, green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) under co-expression of VHb in two typical industrial 
E. coli strains, BL21 (a B derivative) and W3110 (a K12 derivative), which have 
different metabolic properties. We employed the nar oxygen-dependent promoter 
for self-tuning regulation of VHb expression due to the natural transition of 
dissolved oxygen (DO) level during culture. We observed several interesting and 
differing behaviors in cultures of the two strains. VHb co-expression showed a 
positive influence on expression, and even on solubility, of GFP in both 
strains; while strain BL21 had the higher GFP expression level, W3110 showed 
higher solubility of expressed GFP. GFP expression in strain BL21 was very 
largely affected by variation of aeration environments, but W3110 was not 
significantly impacted. We surmised that this arose from different oxygen 
utilization abilities and indeed the two strains showed different patterns of 
oxygen uptake rate. Interestingly, the VHb co-expressing W3110 strain exhibited 
a peculiar increasing pattern of GFP expression during the late culture period 
even under low aeration conditions and this enhancement was more obvious in 
large-scale cultures. Therefore, this strain could be successfully employed in 
practical large-scale production cultures where DO levels tend to be limited.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-002-1043-3
PMID: 12172620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nat Biotechnol. 2004 Jul;22(7):877-82. doi: 10.1038/nbt984. Epub 2004 Jun 13.

Cold-shock induced high-yield protein production in Escherichia coli.

Qing G(1), Ma LC, Khorchid A, Swapna GV, Mal TK, Takayama MM, Xia B, Phadtare S, 
Ke H, Acton T, Montelione GT, Ikura M, Inouye M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, 675 Hoes 
Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2004 Jul;22(7):826-7.

Overexpression of proteins in Escherichia coli at low temperature improves their 
solubility and stability. Here, we apply the unique features of the cspA gene to 
develop a series of expression vectors, termed pCold vectors, that drive the 
high expression of cloned genes upon induction by cold-shock. Several proteins 
were produced with very high yields, including E. coli EnvZ ATP-binding domain 
(EnvZ-B) and Xenopus laevis calmodulin (CaM). The pCold vector system can also 
be used to selectively enrich target proteins with isotopes to study their 
properties in cell lysates using NMR spectroscopy. We have cloned 38 genes from 
a range of prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms into both pCold and pET14 (ref. 
3) systems, and found that pCold vectors are highly complementary to the widely 
used pET vectors.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt984
PMID: 15195104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Dec;44(2):155-61. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.03.030. Epub 
2005 Apr 19.

Increase of soluble expression in Escherichia coli cytoplasm by a protein 
disulfide isomerase gene fusion system.

Liu Y(1), Zhao TJ, Yan YB, Zhou HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China.

Human protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) was selected as a fusion partner to 
construct a gene expression system to enhance the solubility of recombinant 
protein in Escherichia coli. DREBIII-1, a plant specific transcriptional factor, 
was found to mainly form inclusion bodies when expressed in either His-tagged or 
GST-fusion systems in E. coli. In contrast, when fused with PDI, the expressed 
DREBIII-1 was in a highly soluble and biologically active form. Two fusion 
proteins, HDP and HPD, were generated by positioning DREBIII-1 at the N-terminal 
and C-terminal of PDI, respectively. After purification, HDP exhibited a higher 
stability and showed only one band on SDS-PAGE, while HPD degraded as several 
bands. HDP was verified to have the biological function of PDI by isomerase 
activity assay; meanwhile, it also presented the DNA binding and transcriptional 
activation characteristic of DREBIII-1 in fluorescence quenching and yeast 
one-hybrid experiments. The PDI fusion expression system was demonstrated to be 
highly efficient in generating not only soluble but functional desired proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.03.030
PMID: 15882951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2004 Dec;44(6):752-5.

[Prokaryotic expression and bioactivity of the Listeria monocytogenes 
listeriolysin O].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin YL(1), Jiao XA, Pan ZM, Zhang XM, Gu ZQ.

Author information:
(1)Bioscience and Biotechnology College, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, 
China. lanyy31@yahoo.com

To express the Listeria monocytogenes hly gene in Escherichia coli and study its 
primary biological characteristics, hly gene without signal peptide sequence was 
amplified from Listeria monocytogenes serotype 4b by PCR and inserted into 
T-easy vector. Sequencing showed this hly gene was 1518 bp and nucleotide 
homology was more than 99.8% compared with three Listeria monocytogenes hly 
genes in GenBank. The cloned hly gene was then inserted into prokaryotic 
expression vector pGEX-6P-1 and transformed into E. coli BL21. The predicted 
fusion protein was detected by SDS-PAGE after IPTG inducion, which had molecular 
weight approximately 82 kD. Hemolytic experiment demonstrated the expressed 
fusion protein can lyse human red cell and its hemolytic titer attained 2.26 x 
10(4) HU/mg. Conclusively, the Listeria monocytogenes hly gene was successfully 
cloned and expressed in E. coli. The successful expression of LLO in E. coli 
BL21 constituted a solid foundation for further researches such as pathogenesis 
and immune mechanism, MAb and vaccine development.

PMID: 16110954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. J Biotechnol. 2015 Jan 10;193:16-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.10.037. Epub 
2014 Nov 5.

Type II thioesterase improves heterologous biosynthesis of valinomycin in 
Escherichia coli.

Li J(1), Jaitzig J(2), Theuer L(2), Legala OE(2), Süssmuth RD(3), Neubauer P(2).

Author information:
(1)Chair of Bioprocess Engineering, Department of Biotechnology, Technische 
Universität Berlin, Ackerstraße 76, ACK24, D-13355 Berlin, Germany. Electronic 
address: ljtboa@gmail.com.
(2)Chair of Bioprocess Engineering, Department of Biotechnology, Technische 
Universität Berlin, Ackerstraße 76, ACK24, D-13355 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Technische Universität Berlin, Straße des 17. Juni 
124, D-10623 Berlin, Germany.

Heterologous expression of secondary metabolite biosynthesis pathways in a 
surrogate host, e.g. Escherichia coli, has emerged in recent years as an 
effective way to produce complex natural products. The nonribosomal peptide 
(NRP) antibiotic valinomycin has been recombinantly produced in E. coli through 
reconstitution of its biosynthetic pathway from the native producer Streptomyces 
tsusimaensis. In this study, a discrete protein type II thioesterase (TEII) 
encoded in the valinomycin gene cluster was coexpressed in the valinomycin 
producing E. coli strain. Valinomycin titers were significantly improved from 
0.5 (without TEII coexpression) to 3.3 mg L(-1), which demonstrates the 
reconstitutive function of TEII involved in NRP biosynthesis. Based on a flask 
scale fed-batch cultivation system, repeated feeding of the glucose polymer 
during the cultivation further increased cell density and valinomycin titer up 
to 55 (OD600) and 13 mg L(-1), respectively. This indicates scalable high cell 
density cultivation in a bioreactor for overproduction of valinomycin will be a 
potential and feasible approach. In this work we present an in vivo example to 
show that TEII plays a positive role in heterologous valinomycin production.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.10.037
PMID: 25449019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2010 Jul;30(7):1558-61.

[Cloning and expression of Chlamydia trachomatis OmcBc gene and antigenicity 
analysis of the protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang J(1), Zhang YQ, Zhong GM, Yu P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Basic Medical School of Central South University, 
Changsha 410078, China. jiewang0988@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the antigenicity of recombinant Chlamydia trachomatis 
(Ct) OmcBc protein and search for the new target for early diagnosis of 
Chlamydia infection and Chlamydia vaccine development.
METHODS: The C fragment of OmcB encoding the amino acids from T270 to T553 was 
amplified from Chlamydia serovar D genomic DNA. The pGEX-6p-Ct OmcBc expression 
plasmid was constructed and transformed into E.coli XL-1blue. The expression of 
recombinant Ct OmcBc protein was induced by IPTG. Serum samples were collected 
from 120 patients with urogenital Chlamydia infection. The antiserum samples 
were collected from 7 New Zealand white rabbits and 5 Balb/C mice immunized 
subcutaneously and intraperitoneally with Ct serovar D inactivated EB, 
respectively, and from 9 Balb/C mice intranasally infected with Ct serovar D 
live EB. The anti-Chlamydia specific antibody were titrated by an 
immunofluorescence assay (IFA). The reactivity of the recombinant OmcBc protein 
with all the above antisera was detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: The pGEX-6p-Ct OmcBc expression plasmid was successfully constructed. 
DNA sequencing showed that the inserted OmcBc was about 852 bp, encoding a 
protein with 284 amino acids. The expression of the recombinant GST-OmcBc was 
induced by IPTG, producing a fusion protein with a molecular weight of about 57 
kD. The titer of the specific antibodies to Chlamydia in all the antisera was 
high. ELISA results showed strong reactivities of the recombinant GST-OmcBc 
fusion protein with all the above antisera.
CONCLUSIONS: OmcBc protein is an immunodominant protein of Chlamydia. The 
recombinant GST-OmcBc with strong antigenicity may provide a basis for further 
study of early diagnosis of chlamydia infection and development of Chlamydia 
vaccine.

PMID: 20650765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. PeerJ. 2020 Mar 11;8:e8750. doi: 10.7717/peerj.8750. eCollection 2020.

Codon optimization, expression in Escherichia coli, and immunogenicity analysis 
of deformed wing virus (DWV) structural protein.

Fei D(1)(2), Guo Y(1), Fan Q(3), Li M(2), Sun L(2), Ma M(2), Li Y(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Medicine, Northeast Agricultural University, Haerbin, 
Heilongjiang, China.
(2)Laboratory Animal Center, Jinzhou Normal University, Jinzhou, Liaoning, 
China.
(3)Jinzhou Agricultural and Rural Comprehensive Service Center, Jinzhou, 
Liaoning, China.

BACKGROUND: Deformed wing virus (DWV) is a serious threat to honey bees (Apis 
mellifera) and is considered a major cause of elevated losses of honey bee 
colonies. However, lack of information on the immunogenicity of DWV structural 
proteins has hindered the development of effective biocontrol drugs.
METHODS: We optimized the VP1, VP2 and VP3 codons of DWV surface capsid protein 
genes on the basis of an Escherichia coli codon bias, and the optimized genes of 
roVP1, roVP2 and roVP3 were separately expressed in E. coli and purified. Next, 
the three recombinant proteins of roVP1, roVP2 and roVP3 were intramuscularly 
injected into BALB/c and the immunogenicity was evaluated by the levels of 
specific IgG and cytokines. Furthermore, anti-roVP-antisera (roVP1 or roVP2 or 
roVP3) from the immunized mice was incubated with DWV for injecting healthy 
white-eyed pupae for the viral challenge test, respectively.
RESULTS: The optimized genes roVP1, roVP2 and roVP3 achieved the expression in 
E. coli using SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. Post-immunization, roVP2 and roVP3 
exhibited higher immunogenicity than roVP1 and stimulated a stronger humoral 
immune response in the mice, which showed that the recombinant proteins of roVP3 
and roVP2 induced a specific immune response in the mice. In the challenge test, 
data regarding quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) from challenged pupae 
showed that the level of virus copies in the recombinant protein groups was 
significantly lower than that of the virus-only group at 96 h post-inoculation 
(P < 0.05). Among them, the degree of neutralization using antibodies raised to 
the recombinant proteins are between approximately 2-fold and 4-fold and the 
virus copies of the roVP3 group are the lowest in the three recombinant protein 
groups, which indicated that specific antibodies against recombinant proteins 
roVP1, roVP2 and roVP3 of DWV could neutralize DWV to reduce the virus titer in 
the pupae. Collectively, these results demonstrated that the surface capsid 
protein of DWV acted as candidates for the development of therapeutic antibodies 
against the virus.

© 2020 Fei et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.8750
PMCID: PMC7071823
PMID: 32201647

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


557. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 25;8(4):e62529. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062529. Print 
2013.

Prokaryotic ubiquitin-like ThiS fusion enhances the heterologous protein 
overexpression and aggregation in Escherichia coli.

Yuan S(1), Xu J, Ge Y, Yan Z, Du G, Wang N.

Author information:
(1)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 
Institute of Materia Medica, Beijing Key Laboratory of New Drug Mechanisms and 
Pharmacological Evaluation Study, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Fusion tags are commonly employed to enhance target protein expression, improve 
their folding and solubility, and reduce protein degradation in expression of 
recombinant proteins. Ubiquitin (Ub) and SUMO are highly conserved small 
proteins in eukaryotes, and frequently used as fusion tags in prokaryotic 
expression. ThiS, a smaller sulfur-carrier protein involved in thiamin 
synthesis, is conserved among most prokaryotic species. The structural 
similarity between ThiS and Ub provoked us into expecting that the former could 
be used as a fusion tag. Hence, ThiS was fused to insulin A and B chains, murine 
Ribonuclease Inhibitor (mRI) and EGFP, respectively. When induced in Escherichia 
coli, ThiS-fused insulin A and B chains were overexpressed in inclusion bodies, 
and to higher levels in comparison to the same proteins fused with Ub. On the 
contrast, ThiS fusion of mRI, an unstable protein, resulted in enhanced 
degradation that was not alleviated in protease-deficient strains. While the 
degradation of Ub- and SUMO-fused mRI was less and seemed protease-dependent. 
Enhanced degradation of mRI did not occur for the fusions with half-molecules of 
ThiS. When ThiS-tag was fused to the C-terminus of EGFP, higher expression, 
predominantly in inclusion bodies, was observed again. It was further found that 
ThiS fusion of EGFP significantly retarded its refolding process. These results 
indicated that prokaryotic ThiS is able to promote the expression of target 
proteins in E. coli, but enhanced degradation may occur in case of unstable 
targets. Unlike eukaryotic Ub-based tags usually increase the solubility and 
folding of proteins, ThiS fusion enhances the expression by augmenting the 
formation of inclusion bodies, probably through retardation of the folding of 
target proteins.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062529
PMCID: PMC3636215
PMID: 23638106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


558. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Mar;21(2):144-6, 150.

[Construction and expression of recombinant adenovirus containing human thymic 
stromal lymphopoietin gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi LY(1), Sun HY, Zhang LH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310014, China. 
shi_liyun@msn.com

AIM: To construct and express recombinant adenovirus bearing human thymic 
stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) gene.
METHODS: TSLP gene amplified from human fetal lung cells was first cloned into 
eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3.1, and then subcloned into shuttle vector 
pShuttle. The resultant plasmid was subsequently cotransformed into E. coli 
BJ5183 cells with adenoviral backbone plasmid pAdEasy-1. The recombinant 
adenovirus plasmid containing TSLP was digested with Pac I and transfected into 
HEK293 cells to package recombinant adenovirus particles. The TSLP gene of the 
recombinant virus was detected by PCR, and its expression was analyzed by 
Western blot.
RESULTS: Recombinant adenovirus vector bearing human TSLP gene was constructed 
by homologous recombination in E.coli, and recombinant adenovirus was obtained 
by transfecting HEK293 cells with this infectious DNA. PCR test indicated that 
TSLP gene was successfully integrated into the adenoviral genome, and the titer 
of the recombinant Ad reached 1 x 10(11) pfu/L. Meanwhile, expression of TSLP in 
the infected Hela cells was confirmed by Western blot.
CONCLUSION: The construction of recombinant adenovirus bearing human TSLP gene 
and its expression mediated by this adenovirus pave a foundation for the study 
on the biological function of this novel cytokine.

PMID: 15766394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2013 Jan;34(1):339-47. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2012.11.025. 
Epub 2012 Dec 1.

In vivo effects of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide on regulation of immune 
response and protein expression in striped catfish (Pangasianodon 
hypophthalmus).

Hang BT(1), Milla S, Gillardin V, Phuong NT, Kestemont P.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit in Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, NARILIS, University 
of Namur, Namur, Belgium. btbhang@ctu.edu.vn

Lipolysaccharide (LPS), a component of outer membrane protein of gram-negative 
bacteria, reportedly stimulates fish immune system. However, mechanisms driving 
this immunomodulatory effect are yet unknown. To determine effects of 
Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide on regulation of immune response and protein 
expression of striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus), juvenile fish 
(20-25 g) were injected with 3, 15 or 45 mg E.coli LPS/kg and challenged with 
Edwardsiella ictaluri. Plasma cortisol and glucose were rather low and did not 
differ (p<0.05) among treatments. All LPS treatments differed regarding blood 
cell count and immune variables such as plasma and spleen lysozyme, complement 
activity and antibody titer, 3mg LPS/kg yielding best results; red blood cell 
count was not affected by LPS treatment. Accumulated mortalities after bacterial 
challenge were 23.4, 32.8, 37.7 and 52.5% for treatment 3, 15, 45 mg LPS/kg fish 
and control respectively. Proteomic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear 
cells (PBMC) confirmed that LPS induced differentially over-expressed immune 
proteins such as complement component C3 and lysozyme C2 precursor. Regulation 
of other proteins such as Wap65, alpha-2 macroglobulin-3 and transferrin 
precursor was also demonstrated. Striped catfish injected with E.coli LPS 
enhanced innate immune responses.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2012.11.025
PMID: 23207480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2017 Apr;40(4):549-557. doi: 10.1007/s00449-016-1720-8. 
Epub 2016 Dec 16.

Enhanced succinic acid production under acidic conditions by introduction of 
glutamate decarboxylase system in E. coli AFP111.

Wu M(1), Li X(1), Guo S(1), Lemma WD(1), Zhang W(1), Ma J(1), Jia H(1), Wu H(1), 
Jiang M(2), Ouyang P(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, No. 30 
Puzhu South Road, Pukou District, 211816, Nanjing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, No. 30 
Puzhu South Road, Pukou District, 211816, Nanjing, China. 
bioengine@njtech.edu.cn.

Biological synthesis of succinic acid at low pH values was favored since it not 
only decreased investment cost but also simplified downstream purification 
process. In this study, the feasibility of using glutamate decarboxylase system 
to improve succinic acid production of Escherichia coli AFP111, a 
succinate-producing candidate with mutations in pfl, ldhA, and ptsG, under 
acidic conditions was investigated. By overexpressing gadBC operon in AFP111, a 
recombinant named as BA201 (AFP111/pMD19T-gadBC) was constructed. Fermentation 
at pH 5.6 showed that 30 g L-1 glucose was consumed and 26.58 g L-1 succinic 
acid was produced by BA201, which was 1.22- and 1.32-fold higher than that by 
the control BA200 (AFP111/pMD19T) containing the empty vector. Analysis of 
intracellular enzymes activities and ATP concentrations revealed that the 
activities of key enzymes involved in glucose uptake and products synthesis and 
intracellular ATP levels were all increased after overexpression of gadBC which 
were benefit for cell metabolism under weak acidic conditions. To further 
improve the succinic acid titer by recombinant BA201 at pH 5.6, the 
extracellular glutamate concentration was optimized and the final succinic acid 
titer increased 20.4% to 32.01 g L-1. Besides, the fermentation time was 
prolonged by repetitive fermentation and additional 15.78 g L-1 succinic acid 
was produced by recovering cells into fresh medium. The results here 
demonstrated a potential strategy of overexpressing gadBC for increased succinic 
acid production of E. coli AFP111 under weak acidic conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-016-1720-8
PMID: 27987090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Jun 14;22(12):6361. doi: 10.3390/ijms22126361.

Novel Bacterial Production of Two Different Bioactive Forms of Human Stem-Cell 
Factor.

Lee E(1), de Paula MN(1), Baek S(1), Ta HKK(1), Nguyen MT(1), Jeong TH(1), Kim 
CJ(2), Jang YJ(1), Choe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul 05505, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, 
Seoul 05505, Korea.

Human stem-cell factor (hSCF) stimulates the survival, proliferation, and 
differentiation of hematopoietic cells by binding to the c-Kit receptor. Various 
applications of hSCF require the efficient and reliable production of hSCF. hSCF 
exists in three forms: as two membrane-spanning proteins hSCF248 and hSCF229 and 
truncated soluble N-terminal protein hSCF164. hSCF164 is known to be insoluble 
when expressed in Escherichia coli cytoplasm, requiring a complex refolding 
procedure. The activity of hSCF248 has never been studied. Here, we investigated 
novel production methods for recombinant hSCF164 and hSCF248 without the 
refolding process. To increase the solubility of hSCF164, maltose-binding 
protein (MBP) and protein disulfide isomerase b'a' domain (PDIb'a') tags were 
attached to the N-terminus of hSCF164. These fusion proteins were overexpressed 
in soluble form in the Origami 2(DE3) E. coli strain. These solubilization 
effects were enhanced at a low temperature. His-hSCF248, the poly-His tagged 
form of hSCF248, was expressed in a highly soluble form without a solubilization 
tag protein, which was unexpected because His-hSCF248 contains a transmembrane 
domain. hSCF164 was purified using affinity and ion-exchange chromatography, and 
His-hSCF248 was purified by ion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography. The 
purified proteins stimulated the proliferation of TF-1 cells. Interestingly, the 
EC50 value of His-hSCF248 was 1 pg/mL, 100-fold lower than 9 ng/mL hSCF164. 
Additionally, His-hSCF248 decreased the doubling time, increased the proportion 
of S and G2/M stages in the cell cycle, and increased the c-Myc expression at a 
1000-fold lower concentration than hSCF164. In conclusion, His-hSCF248 was 
expressed in a soluble form in E. coli and had stronger activity than hSCF164. 
The molecular chaperone, MBP, enabled the soluble overexpression of hSCF164.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22126361
PMCID: PMC8232154
PMID: 34198626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest in 
relation to this study.


562. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Jul;103(14):5627-5639. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-019-09876-y. Epub 2019 May 18.

Comparison of engineered Escherichia coli AF1000 and BL21 strains for 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate production in fed-batch cultivation.

Perez-Zabaleta M(1)(2), Guevara-Martínez M(1)(2), Gustavsson M(1), Quillaguamán 
J(2), Larsson G(1), van Maris AJA(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, Biotechnology, and Health (CBH), 
Department of Industrial Biotechnology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
AlbaNova University Center, SE-10691, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Center of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science and Technology, Universidad Mayor 
de San Simón, Cochabamba, Bolivia.
(3)School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, Biotechnology, and Health (CBH), 
Department of Industrial Biotechnology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
AlbaNova University Center, SE-10691, Stockholm, Sweden. tonvm@kth.se.

Accumulation of acetate is a limiting factor in recombinant production of 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate (3HB) by Escherichia coli in high-cell-density processes. 
To alleviate this limitation, this study investigated two approaches: (i) 
deletion of phosphotransacetylase (pta), pyruvate oxidase (poxB), and/or the 
isocitrate lyase regulator (iclR), known to decrease acetate formation, on 
bioreactor cultivations designed to achieve high 3HB concentrations. (ii) 
Screening of different E. coli strain backgrounds (B, BL21, W, BW25113, MG1655, 
W3110, and AF1000) for their potential as low acetate-forming, 3HB-producing 
platforms. Deletion of pta and pta-poxB in the AF1000 strain background was to 
some extent successful in decreasing acetate formation, but also dramatically 
increased excretion of pyruvate and did not result in increased 3HB production 
in high-cell-density fed-batch cultivations. Screening of the different E. coli 
strains confirmed BL21 as a low acetate-forming background. Despite low 3HB 
titers in low-cell-density screening, 3HB-producing BL21 produced five times 
less acetic acid per mole of 3HB, which translated into a 2.3-fold increase in 
the final 3HB titer and a 3-fold higher volumetric 3HB productivity over 
3HB-producing AF1000 strains in nitrogen-limited fed-batch cultivations. 
Consequently, the BL21 strain achieved the hitherto highest described volumetric 
productivity of 3HB (1.52 g L-1 h-1) and the highest 3HB concentration 
(16.3 g L-1) achieved by recombinant E. coli. Screening solely for 3HB titers in 
low-cell-density batch cultivations would not have identified the potential of 
this strain, reaffirming the importance of screening with the final production 
conditions in mind.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-09876-y
PMCID: PMC6597613
PMID: 31104101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.


563. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2011 Dec;24(12):873-81. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzr049. Epub 
2011 Oct 13.

Selection for intrabody solubility in mammalian cells using GFP fusions.

Guglielmi L(1), Denis V, Vezzio-Vié N, Bec N, Dariavach P, Larroque C, Martineau 
P.

Author information:
(1)IRCM, Institut de Recherche en Cancérologie de Montpellier, Montpellier 
F-34298, France.

Single-chain antibody fragments (scFv) expressed in the cytoplasm of mammalian 
cells, also called intrabodies, have many applications in functional proteomics. 
These applications are, however, limited by the aggregation-prone behaviour of 
many intrabodies. We show here that two scFv with highly homologous sequences 
and comparable soluble expression levels in Escherichia coli cytoplasm have 
different behaviours in mammalian cells. When over-expressed, one of the scFv 
aggregates in the cytoplasm whereas the second one is soluble and active. When 
expressed at low levels, using a retroviral vector, as a fusion with the green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) the former does not form aggregates and is degraded, 
resulting in weakly fluorescent cells, whereas the latter is expressed as a 
soluble protein, resulting in strongly fluorescent cells. These data suggest 
that the GFP signal can be used to evaluate the soluble expression of 
intrabodies in mammalian cells. When applied to a subset of an E.coli-optimised 
intrabody library, we showed that the population of GFP+ cells contains indeed 
soluble mammalian intrabodies. Altogether, our data demonstrate that the 
requirements for soluble intrabody expression are different in E.coli and 
mammalian cells, and that intrabody libraries can be directly optimised in human 
cells using a simple GFP-based assay.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzr049
PMCID: PMC3655372
PMID: 21997307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue. 2006 Oct;12(10):867-71.

[Cloning, expression and purification of human nuclear autoantigenic sperm 
protein (hNASP) and preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang M(1), Shi JL, Cheng GY, Hu YQ, Liu CM, Xu C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, Shanghai Jiaotong University School 
of Medicine/Shanghai Key Laboratory for Reproductive Medicine, Shanghai 200025, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To acquire the purified human nuclear autoantigenic sperm protein 
(hNASP) and its polyclonal antibody for investigating the possible functions of 
hNASP involved in fertilization.
METHODS: The coding sequence of hNASP gene was amplified from human testis RNA 
with specific primers, and the PCR product was cloned first into pMD-18T and 
then into pET-28a ( + ) after restriction digestion with BamH I and Hind III. 
The fusion protein was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) after induction with 
IPTG. The recombinant protein NASP was purified from the supernatant with Ni2 
-NTA His-bind resin under native conditions.
RESULTS: The results of DNA sequencing and SDS-PAGE analysis showed the protein 
to be what we had hoped to acquire. ELISA showed that we had acquired rabbit 
anti-hNASP serum with high titer.
CONCLUSION: High purity recombinant hNASP protein could be obtained with the 
above-mentioned prokaryotic expression method, and so could the rabbit 
anti-hNASP serum with high titer and high specificity.

PMID: 17121011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Jul;42(1):211-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.03.020. Epub 
2005 Apr 9.

Time reduction and process optimization of the baculovirus expression system for 
more efficient recombinant protein production in insect cells.

Philipps B(1), Rotmann D, Wicki M, Mayr LM, Forstner M.

Author information:
(1)Discovery Technologies, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Basel, 
Switzerland.

Rapid expression of recombinant proteins for structure determination is one of 
the major challenges in pharmaceutical and academic research, since the number 
of potential drug targets has increased significantly in the last decade. 
Despite the fact that the baculovirus expression vector system is widely used 
for this purpose, the system is hampered by three very slow and tedious 
procedures, namely generation of high titer baculovirus stock, determination of 
the virus titer and discovery of the best conditions for protein expression. We 
herein describe the development of the ultraBac system to address and overcome 
these issues for protein expression in insect cells. We have established a new 
baculovirus expression technology for insect cells that is based on 
co-expression of GFP with target genes, a new regime for cell culturing and a 
highly efficient purification and enrichment procedure for recombinant 
baculovirus particles. Co-expression of GFP is used to monitor the infection of 
insect cells, to simplify titer determination and to optimize expression 
conditions. The new regime for cell culturing with increased viability of 
non-infected insect cells and its combination with the massive enrichment of 
virus particles via high-speed centrifugation enables the production of large 
amounts of recombinant virus in a very short period of time. By combining these 
techniques and by using the bicistronic vector pUltraBac-1, we have been able to 
cut the time-lines for protein expression in insect cells by half, approaching 
those for protein production in Escherichia coli. This new expression system is 
a significant step forward towards industrialized protein production in both, 
industry and academia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.03.020
PMID: 15939308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. BMC Bioinformatics. 2014 May 8;15:134. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-134.

A review of machine learning methods to predict the solubility of overexpressed 
recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli.

Habibi N(1), Mohd Hashim SZ, Norouzi A, Samian MR.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Johor, Malaysia. 
hnarjeskhatoon2@live.utm.my.

BACKGROUND: Over the last 20 years in biotechnology, the production of 
recombinant proteins has been a crucial bioprocess in both biopharmaceutical and 
research arena in terms of human health, scientific impact and economic volume. 
Although logical strategies of genetic engineering have been established, 
protein overexpression is still an art. In particular, heterologous expression 
is often hindered by low level of production and frequent fail due to opaque 
reasons. The problem is accentuated because there is no generic solution 
available to enhance heterologous overexpression. For a given protein, the 
extent of its solubility can indicate the quality of its function. Over 30% of 
synthesized proteins are not soluble. In certain experimental circumstances, 
including temperature, expression host, etc., protein solubility is a feature 
eventually defined by its sequence. Until now, numerous methods based on machine 
learning are proposed to predict the solubility of protein merely from its amino 
acid sequence. In spite of the 20 years of research on the matter, no 
comprehensive review is available on the published methods.
RESULTS: This paper presents an extensive review of the existing models to 
predict protein solubility in Escherichia coli recombinant protein 
overexpression system. The models are investigated and compared regarding the 
datasets used, features, feature selection methods, machine learning techniques 
and accuracy of prediction. A discussion on the models is provided at the end.
CONCLUSIONS: This study aims to investigate extensively the machine learning 
based methods to predict recombinant protein solubility, so as to offer a 
general as well as a detailed understanding for researches in the field. Some of 
the models present acceptable prediction performances and convenient user 
interfaces. These models can be considered as valuable tools to predict 
recombinant protein overexpression results before performing real laboratory 
experiments, thus saving labour, time and cost.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-134
PMCID: PMC4098780
PMID: 24885721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Protein J. 2021 Oct;40(5):786-798. doi: 10.1007/s10930-021-09996-3. Epub 2021 
May 23.

Production of Soluble and Functional Anti-TNF-α Fab' Fragment in Cytoplasm of E. 
coli: Investigating the Effect of Process Conditions on Cellular Biomass and 
Protein Yield Using Response Surface Methodology.

Talaei A(1), Mazaheri S(2), Bayat E(2), Bakhshandeh B(1), Sabzalinejad M(2), 
Damough S(2), Mahboudi F(2), Nematollahi L(3), Talebkhan Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Science, University of Tehran, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran. 
leila.nematollahi@pasteur.ac.ir.
(4)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran. 
talebkhan@pasteur.ac.ir.

With the increasing dominance of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) in the 
biopharmaceutical industry and smaller antibody fragments bringing notable 
advantages over full-length antibodies, it is of considerable significance to 
choose the most suitable production system. Although mammalian expression system 
has been the preferred choice in recent years for mAbs production, E. coli could 
be the favorable host for non-glycosylated small antibody fragments due to the 
emergence of new engineered E. coli strains capable of forming disulfide-bonds 
in their cytoplasm.In this study, non-glycosylated anti-TNF-α Fab' moiety of 
Certolizumab pegol, produced by periplasmic expression in E. coli in previous 
studies, was produced in the cytoplasm of E. coli SHuffle strain. The results 
indicated that it is biologically functional by testing the antigen-binding 
activity via indirect ELISA and inhibition of TNF-α induced cytotoxicity using 
MTT test. Major factors affecting protein production and, optimized culture 
conditions were examined by analyzing growth characteristics and patterns of 
expression in 24 h of post-induction cultivation and, optimization of culture 
conditions by response surface methodology considering temperature, time of 
induction and concentration of inducer in small (tube) and shake-flask scale. 
Based on the results, temperature had the most significant influence on 
functional protein yield while exerting different impacts in small and 
shake-flask scales, which indicated that cultivation volume is also an important 
factor that should be taken into account in optimization process. Furthermore, 
richness of medium and slower cellular growth rate improved specific cellular 
yield of functional protein by having a positive effect on the solubility of 
Fab' antibody.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-021-09996-3
PMID: 34023982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Proteins. 2003 Feb 15;50(3):392-9. doi: 10.1002/prot.10282.

Strategies for structural proteomics of prokaryotes: Quantifying the advantages 
of studying orthologous proteins and of using both NMR and X-ray crystallography 
approaches.

Savchenko A(1), Yee A, Khachatryan A, Skarina T, Evdokimova E, Pavlova M, Semesi 
A, Northey J, Beasley S, Lan N, Das R, Gerstein M, Arrowmith CH, Edwards AM.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Center for Structural Proteomics, University Health Network, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Only about half of non-membrane-bound proteins encoded by either bacterial or 
archaeal genomes are soluble when expressed in Escherichia coli (Yee et al., 
Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2002;99:1825-1830; Christendat et al., Prog Biophys Mol 
Biol 200;73:339-345). This property limits genome-scale functional and 
structural proteomics studies, which depend on having a recombinant, soluble 
version of each protein. An emerging strategy to increase the probability of 
deriving a soluble derivative of a protein is to study different sequence 
homologues of the same protein, including representatives from thermophilic 
organisms, based on the assumption that the stability of these proteins will 
facilitate structural analysis. To estimate the relative merits of this 
strategy, we compared the recombinant expression, solubility, and suitability 
for structural analysis by NMR and/or X-ray crystallography for 68 pairs of 
homologous proteins from E. coli and Thermotoga maritima. A sample suitable for 
structural studies was obtained for 62 of the 68 pairs of homologs under 
standardized growth and purification procedures. Fourteen (eight E. coli and six 
T. maritima proteins) samples generated NMR spectra of a quality suitable for 
structure determination and 30 (14 E. coli and 16 T. maritima proteins) samples 
formed crystals. Only three (one E. coli and two T. maritima proteins) samples 
both crystallized and had excellent NMR properties. The conclusions from this 
work are: (1) The inclusion of even a single ortholog of a target protein 
increases the number of samples for structural studies almost twofold; (2) there 
was no clear advantage to the use of thermophilic proteins to generate samples 
for structural studies; and (3) for the small proteins analyzed here, the use of 
both NMR and crystallography approaches almost doubled the number of samples for 
structural studies.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/prot.10282
PMID: 12557182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;29(9):940-4.

[Expression and purification of HPV16 E2 protein and preparation of its 
antiserum].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun Y(1), Zhang Y, Liu M, Tang L, Zhang G, Wei L, Gu H, Shang Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify the human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) E2 
protein in prokaryotic bacteria and prepare the antiserum of HPV16 E2.
METHODS: After amplified by PCR, HPV16 E2 was inserted into pET21b vector. The 
recombinant pET21b-HPV16E2 vector was transfected into E.coli BL21 (DE3). 
Expression product was identified after induction. Through purification, 
denaturation and renaturation, soluble protein was obtained. With the HPV16 E2 
protein, we immunized BALB/c mice and examined mouse IFN-γ, CD4(+); T cells, 
CD8(+); T cells, CD4/CD8 ratio and antiserum titer.
RESULTS: Restriction digestion and DNA sequencing showed pET21b-HPV16E2 was 
constructed successfully. Relative molecular mass (Mr;) of HPV16 E2 was 42 000 
in SDS-PAGE and the specificity of the protein was confirmed with Western 
blotting. The antiserum could specifically bind with HPV16 E2 protein. In the 
immunized BALB/c mice, antiserum titre, CD4(+); T cell count and CD4/CD8 ratio 
increased, while mouse IFN-γ did not change obviously.
CONCLUSION: Soluble HPV16 E2 protein was obtained successfully. The antiserum of 
high titer against HPV16 E2 was prepared in mice.

PMID: 24011155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Biotechnol. 2016 Mar 20;222:38-46. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2016.02.009. Epub 
2016 Feb 6.

A rapid solubility-optimized screening procedure for recombinant subtilisins in 
E. coli.

Bjerga GE(1), Arsın H(2), Larsen Ø(3), Puntervoll P(4), Kleivdal HT(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Biotechnology, Uni Research AS, Thormøhlensgt. 55, N-5008 
Bergen, Norway. Electronic address: Gro.Bjerga@uni.no.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Bergen, Thormøhlensgt. 53 A/B, N-5008 
Bergen, Norway. Electronic address: Hasan.Arsin@uib.no.
(3)Centre for Applied Biotechnology, Uni Research AS, Thormøhlensgt. 55, N-5008 
Bergen, Norway. Electronic address: Oivind.Larsen@uni.no.
(4)Centre for Applied Biotechnology, Uni Research AS, Thormøhlensgt. 55, N-5008 
Bergen, Norway. Electronic address: Pal.Puntervoll@uni.no.
(5)Centre for Applied Biotechnology, Uni Research AS, Thormøhlensgt. 55, N-5008 
Bergen, Norway. Electronic address: Hans.Kleivdal@uni.no.

Subtilisins and other serine proteases are extensively used in the detergent, 
leather and food industry, and frequently under non-physiological conditions. 
New proteases with improved performance at extreme temperatures and in the 
presence of chemical additives may have great economical potential. The 
increasing availability of genetic sequences from different environments makes 
homology-based screening an attractive strategy for discovery of new proteases. 
A prerequisite for large-scale screening of protease-encoding sequences is an 
efficient screening procedure. We have developed and implemented a screening 
procedure that encompasses cloning of candidate sequences into multiple 
expression vectors, cytoplasmic expression in E. coli, and a casein-based 
functional screen. The procedure is plate-format compatible and can be completed 
in only four days, starting from the gene of interest in a suitable cloning 
vector. The expression vector suite includes six vectors with combinations of 
maltose-binding protein (MBP) or the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) for 
increased solubility, and polyhistidine tags for downstream purification. We 
used enhanced green fluorescent protein and four Bacilli subtilisins to validate 
the screening procedure and our results show that proteins were expressed, 
soluble and active. Interestingly, the highest activities were consistently 
achieved with either MBP or SUMO fusions, thus demonstrating the merit of 
including solubility tags. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that our 
approach can be used to efficiently screen for new subtilisins, and suggest that 
the approach may also be used to screen for proteins with other activities.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2016.02.009
PMID: 26854945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. ACS Synth Biol. 2020 Jun 19;9(6):1240-1245. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00065. Epub 
2020 Jun 5.

Microbial Synthesis of Human-Hormone Melatonin at Gram Scales.

Luo H(1), Schneider K(1), Christensen U(1), Lei Y(1), Herrgard M(1), Palsson 
BØ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical University of 
Denmark, Kongens Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California 92093, United States.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California 92093, United States.

Melatonin is a commercially attractive tryptophan-derived hormone. Here we 
describe a bioprocess for the production of melatonin using Escherichia coli to 
high titers. The first engineered strain produced 0.13 g/L of melatonin from 
tryptophan under fed-batch fermentation conditions. A 4-fold improvement on 
melatonin titer was further achieved by (1) protein engineering of rate-limiting 
tryptophan hydroxylase to improve 5-hydroxytryptophan biosynthesis and (2) 
chromosomal integration of aromatic-amino-acid decarboxylase to limit byproduct 
formation and to minimize gene toxicity to the host cell. Fermentation 
optimization improved melatonin titer by an additional 2-fold. Deletion of yddG, 
a tryptophan exporter, exhibited an additive beneficial effect. The final 
engineered strain produced ∼2.0 g/L of melatonin with tryptophan supplemented 
externally and ∼1.0 g/L with glucose as the sole carbon source for tryptophan 
supply. This study lays the foundation for further developing a commercial 
melatonin-producing E. coli strain.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00065
PMID: 32501000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Pharm Res. 2019 Nov 20;36(12):184. doi: 10.1007/s11095-019-2705-5.

Stability and Biological Activity of E. coli Derived Soluble and Precipitated 
Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2.

Quaas B(1), Burmeister L(2)(3), Li Z(1), Satalov A(4)(5), Behrens P(3)(4), 
Hoffmann A(2)(3), Rinas U(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Leibniz University of Hannover, Technical Chemistry - Life Science, Hannover, 
Germany.
(2)Hannover Medical School, Department of Orthopedic Surgery Graded Implants and 
Regenerative Strategies, Laboratory of Biomechanics and Biomaterials, Hannover, 
Germany.
(3)Lower Saxony Center for Biomedical Engineering Implant Research and 
Development, Hannover, Germany.
(4)Leibniz University Hannover, Institute for Inorganic Chemistry, Hannover, 
Germany.
(5)Pasargad Institute for Advanced Innovative Solutions, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Leibniz University of Hannover, Technical Chemistry - Life Science, Hannover, 
Germany. Ursula.Rinas@helmholtz-hzi.de.
(7)Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Inhoffenstraße 7, D-38124, 
Braunschweig, Germany. Ursula.Rinas@helmholtz-hzi.de.

PURPOSE: There is a plethora of studies on recombinant human bone morphogenetic 
protein-2 (rhBMP-2) application and delivery systems, but surprisingly few 
reports address the biophysical properties of the protein which are of crucial 
importance to develop effective delivery systems or to solve general problems 
related to rhBMP-2 production, purification, analysis and application.
METHODS: The solubility, stability and bioactivity of rhBMP-2 obtained by 
renaturation of E. coli derived inclusion bodies was assessed at different pH 
and in different buffer systems using (dynamic) light scattering and thermal 
shift assays as well as intrinsic fluorescence measurements and luciferase based 
bioassays.
RESULTS: rhBMP-2 is poorly soluble at physiological pH and higher. The presence 
of divalent anions further decreases the solubility even under acidic 
conditions. Thermal stability analyses revealed that rhBMP-2 precipitates are 
more stable compared to the soluble protein. Moreover, correctly folded rhBMP-2 
is also bioactive as precipitated protein and precipitates readily dissolve 
under appropriate buffer conditions. Once properly formed rhBMP-2 also retains 
biological activity after temporary exposure to high concentrations of 
chaotropic denaturants. However, care should be taken to discriminate bioactive 
rhBMP-2 precipitates from misfolded rhBMP-2 aggregates, e.g. resolvability in 
MES buffer (pH 5) and a discrete peak in thermoshift experiments are mandatory 
for correctly folded rhBMP-2.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed that E. coli derived rhBMP-2 precipitates are 
not only bioactive but are also more stable compared to the soluble dimeric 
molecules. Knowledge about these unusual properties will be helpful to design 
improved delivery systems requiring lower amounts of rhBMP-2 in clinical 
applications.

DOI: 10.1007/s11095-019-2705-5
PMID: 31748894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. J Biomol NMR. 2004 Apr;28(4):357-67. doi: 10.1023/B:JNMR.0000015405.62261.cb.

Using codon optimization, chaperone co-expression, and rational mutagenesis for 
production and NMR assignments of human eIF2 alpha.

Ito T(1), Wagner G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard 
Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Producing a well behaved sample at high concentration is one of the main hurdles 
when starting a new project on an interesting protein. Especially when one 
attempts to overexpress a eukaryotic protein in bacteria, some difficulties are 
encountered, such as low expression level, low solubility, or even lack of 
folded structure. Overexpression in prokaryotic systems is highly desirable for 
cost-effective production of different isotope-labeled samples needed for NMR 
studies. Here we describe generally applicable methods for obtaining highly 
concentrated protein samples efficiently. This approach was developed as we 
tried to produce a NMR-suitable sample of the 35 kDa human translation 
initiation factor eIF2 alpha, a protein that expresses poorly in E. coli and has 
very low solubility. First, an E. coli codon-optimized gene was synthesized on a 
thermal cycler, which increased the expression level by a factor of two. Second, 
we used co-expression of bacterial chaperone proteins, which largely increased 
the fraction of correctly folded protein found in the soluble phase. Third, we 
used rational mutagenesis guided by both the sequence alignment among homologues 
and the homology of one domain to a known fold for improving solubility and 
stability of the target protein by tenfold. Combining all these methods made it 
possible to produce from a one-liter preparation a 0.5 mM sample of human eIF2 
alpha that showed well-resolved NMR spectra and enabled nearly complete 
assignment of the protein. These methods may be generally useful for studies of 
other eukaryotic proteins that are otherwise difficult to express and exhibit 
poor solubility.

DOI: 10.1023/B:JNMR.0000015405.62261.cb
PMID: 14872127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Metab Eng. 2020 Sep;61:24-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.04.010. Epub 2020 Apr 
24.

Structure-guided reshaping of the acyl binding pocket of 'TesA thioesterase 
enhances octanoic acid production in E. coli.

Deng X(1), Chen L(1), Hei M(1), Liu T(2), Feng Y(3), Yang GY(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Combinatorial Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery, Ministry of 
Education, and School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
430072, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China. 
Electronic address: yfeng2009@sjtu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China. 
Electronic address: yanggy@sjtu.edu.cn.

Medium-chain fatty acids (C6-C10) have attracted much attention recently for 
their unique properties compared to their long-chain counterparts, including low 
melting points and relatively higher carbon conversion yield. Thioesterase 
enzymes, which can catalyze the hydrolysis of acyl-ACP (acyl carrier protein) to 
release free fatty acids (FAs), regulate both overall FA yields and acyl chain 
length distributions in bacterial and yeast fermentation cultures. These enzymes 
typically prefer longer chain substrates. Herein, seeking to increase bacterial 
production of MCFAs, we conducted structure-guided mutational screening of 
multiple residues in the substrate-binding pocket of the E. coli thioesterase 
enzyme 'TesA. Confirming our hypothesis that enhancing substrate selectivity for 
medium-chain acyl substrates would promote overall MCFA production, we found 
that replacement of residues lining the bottom of the pocket with more 
hydrophobic residues strongly promoted the C8 substrate selectivity of 'TesA. 
Specifically, two rounds of saturation mutagenesis led to the identification of 
the 'TesARD-2 variant that exhibited a 133-fold increase in selectivity for the 
C8-ACP substrate as compared to C16-ACP substrate. Moreover, the recombinant 
expression of this variant in an E. coli strain with a blocked β-oxidation 
pathway led to a 1030% increase in the in vivo octanoic acid (C8) production 
titer. When this strain was fermented in a 5-L fed-batch bioreactor, it produced 
2.7 g/L of free C8 (45%, molar fraction) and 7.9 g/L of total free FAs, which is 
the highest-to-date free C8 titer to date reported using the E. coli type II 
fatty acid synthetic pathway. Thus, reshaping the substrate binding pocket of a 
bacterial thioesterase enzyme by manipulating the hydrophobicity of multiple 
residues altered the substrate selectivity and therefore fatty acid product 
distributions in cells. Our study demonstrates the relevance of this strategy 
for increasing titers of industrially attractive MCFAs as fermentation products.

Copyright © 2020 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.04.010
PMID: 32339761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Microb Cell Fact. 2018 Jan 27;17(1):12. doi: 10.1186/s12934-018-0862-6.

Engineering E. coli for simultaneous glucose-xylose utilization during methyl 
ketone production.

Wang X(1)(2), Goh EB(1)(2), Beller HR(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA.
(2)Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.
(3)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA. HRBeller@lbl.gov.
(4)Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA. HRBeller@lbl.gov.
(5)Earth & Environmental Sciences, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 
Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA. HRBeller@lbl.gov.

BACKGROUND: We previously developed an E. coli strain that overproduces 
medium-chain methyl ketones for potential use as diesel fuel blending agents or 
as flavors and fragrances. To date, the strain's performance has been optimized 
during growth with glucose. However, lignocellulosic biomass hydrolysates also 
contain a substantial portion of hemicellulose-derived xylose, which is 
typically the second most abundant sugar after glucose. Commercialization of the 
methyl ketone-producing technology would benefit from the increased efficiency 
resulting from simultaneous, rather than the native sequential (diauxic), 
utilization of glucose and xylose.
RESULTS: In this study, genetic manipulations were performed to alleviate carbon 
catabolite repression in our most efficient methyl ketone-producing strain. A 
strain engineered for constitutive expression of xylF and xylA (involved in 
xylose transport and metabolism) showed synchronized glucose and xylose 
consumption rates. However, this newly acquired capability came at the expense 
of methyl ketone titer, which decreased fivefold. Further efforts were made to 
improve methyl ketone production in this strain, and we found that two 
strategies were effective at enhancing methyl ketone titer: (1) chromosomal 
deletion of pgi (glucose-6-phosphate isomerase) to increase intracellular NADPH 
supply and (2) downregulation of CRP (cAMP receptor protein) expression by 
replacement of the native RBS with an RBS chosen based upon mutant library 
screening results. Combining these strategies resulted in the most favorable 
overall phenotypes for simultaneous glucose-xylose consumption without 
compromising methyl ketone titer at both 1 and 2% total sugar concentrations in 
shake flasks.
CONCLUSIONS: This work demonstrated a strategy for engineering simultaneous 
utilization of C6 and C5 sugars in E. coli without sacrificing production of 
fatty acid-derived compounds.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-018-0862-6
PMCID: PMC5787283
PMID: 29374483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Protein Pept Lett. 2020;27(3):210-218. doi: 10.2174/0929866526666190930103552.

Chaperones Promote Remarkable Solubilization of Salmonella enterica serovar 
Enteritidis Flagellin Expressed in Escherichia coli.

Bakhtiarvand B(1), Sadeghi Z(2)(3), Tarahomjoo S(3), Yaghmaie S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Sharif University of Technology, Tehran 
8639/11365, Iran.
(2)Division of Cellular and Molecular Sciences, Department of Novel Sciences and 
Technologies, Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Division of Genomics and Genetic Engineering, Department of Biotechnology and 
Central Laboratory, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural 
Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj 31975/148, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Flagellin of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis (SEF) 
stimulates immune responses to both itself and coapplied antigens. It is 
therefore used in vaccine development and immunotherapy. Removal of pathogenic 
S. enterica ser. Enteritidis from SEF production process is advantageous due to 
the process safety improvement. The protein solubility analysis using SDS-PAGE 
indicated that 53.49% of SEF expressed in Escherichia coli formed inclusion 
bodies. However, the protein recovery from inclusion bodies requires a complex 
process with a low yield.
OBJECTIVE: We thus aim to study possibility of enhancing SEF expression in E. 
coli in soluble form using chemical and molecular chaperones.
METHODS: Chemical chaperones including arginine, sorbitol, trehalose, sodium 
chloride and benzyl alcohol were used as cultivation medium additives during SEF 
expression. SEF solubilization by coexpression of molecular chaperones DnaK, 
DnaJ, and GrpE was also investigated.
RESULTS: All of the chemical chaperones were effective in improving SEF 
solubility. However, sorbitol showed the most profound effect. SEF 
solubilization by molecular chaperones was slightly better than that using 
sorbitol and this approach enhanced noticeably SEF soluble concentration and SEF 
solubility percentage to almost two folds and 96.37% respectively. Results of 
limited proteolysis assay and native PAGE indicated similar conformational 
states and proper folding for SEF obtained without using chaperones and for 
those obtained using sorbitol and the molecular chaperones. However, the 
molecular chaperones based system was less costly than the sorbitol based 
system.
CONCLUSION: The coexpression of molecular chaperones was then considered as the 
most appropriate approach for soluble SEF production. Therefore, SEF production 
for medical purposes is expected to be facilitated.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866526666190930103552
PMID: 31566125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Feb;24(2):153-5.

[Preparation and application of anti-serum against mouse Foxp3].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiao HC(1), Xiao JH, He TJ, Hu J, Cui YF.

Author information:
(1)Pathogenic Institute of Biology, Nanhua University Medical College, Hengyang 
421001, China. jiaohaichun2004@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To prepare the high titer and specific anti-serum against mouse Foxp3 and 
then use them to identify Foxp3 expression in normal mouse tissues.
METHODS: The Foxp3 fragment was amplified by polymerase chain reactions(PCR) and 
cloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-6p-2. The recombinant plasmid 
pGEX-6p-2/Foxp3 was transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3) to be expressed. The 
expressed fusion protein GST-Foxp3 was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot. 
The polyclonal clanti-serum was obtained by immunizing New Zealand rabbits with 
the purified fusion protein as antigen. The Foxp3 expression in normal mouse 
tissues was detected by Western blot with the anti-serum.
RESULTS: The expressed products were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot. The 
results showed that the molecular weight of the expressed protein was about 45 
000. The titer of the anti-serum was above 1:12 800. We observed that the 
anti-serum could recognize Foxp3 protein expressed in NIH3T3 cells by 
immunoblotting. Western blot results showed that the Foxp3 protein was expressed 
highly in spleen, thymus and lymph nodes, less expressed in stomach, but not 
expressed in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue.
CONCLUSION: High titer antiserum against mouse Foxp3 is produced and can be used 
to identify the Foxp3 expression in normal mouse tissues.

PMID: 18237533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Biotechnol. 2001 Nov 30;84(2):175-85. doi: 10.1016/s0168-1656(00)00356-4.

Increased production of human proinsulin in the periplasmic space of Escherichia 
coli by fusion to DsbA.

Winter J(1), Neubauer P, Glockshuber R, Rudolph R.

Author information:
(1)Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, Institut für Biotechnologie, 
Kurt-Mothes-Str. 3, D-06120, Halle, Germany.

The production of human proinsulin in its disulfide-intact, native form in 
Escherichia coli requires disulfide bond formation and the periplasmic space is 
the favourable compartment for oxidative folding. However, the secretory 
expression of proinsulin is limited by its high susceptibility to proteolysis 
and by disulfide bond formation, which is rate-limiting for proinsulin folding. 
In this report we describe a method for the production of high amounts of 
soluble, native human proinsulin in E. coli. We fused proinsulin to the 
C-terminus of the periplasmic disulfide oxidoreductase DsbA via a trypsin 
cleavage site. As DsbA is the main catalyst of disulfide bond formation in E. 
coli, we expected increased yields of proinsulin by intra- or intermolecular 
catalysis of disulfide bond formation. In the context of the fusion protein, 
proinsulin was found to be stabilised, probably due to an increased solubility 
and faster disulfide bond formation. To increase the yield of DsbA-proinsulin in 
the periplasm, several parameters were optimised, including host strains and 
cultivation conditions, and in particular growth medium composition and 
supplement of low molecular weight additives. We obtained a further, about 
three-fold increase in the amount of native DsbA-proinsulin by addition of 
L-arginine or ethanol to the culture medium. The maximum yield of native human 
proinsulin obtained from the soluble periplasmic fraction after specific 
cleavage of the fusion protein with trypsin was 9.2 mg g(-1), corresponding to 
1.8% of the total cell protein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1656(00)00356-4
PMID: 11090689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. PeerJ. 2015 Jun 25;3:e1060. doi: 10.7717/peerj.1060. eCollection 2015.

HaloTag is an effective expression and solubilisation fusion partner for a range 
of fibroblast growth factors.

Sun C(#)(1), Li Y(#)(1), Taylor SE(1), Mao X(2), Wilkinson MC(1), Fernig DG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(2)Department of Oncology, Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Oncology, 
Luxembourg Institute of Health, Luxembourg.
(#)Contributed equally

The production of recombinant proteins such as the fibroblast growth factors 
(FGFs) is the key to establishing their function in cell communication. The 
production of recombinant FGFs in E. coli is limited, however, due to expression 
and solubility problems. HaloTag has been used as a fusion protein to introduce 
a genetically-encoded means for chemical conjugation of probes. We have 
expressed 11 FGF proteins with an N-terminal HaloTag, followed by a tobacco etch 
virus (TEV) protease cleavage site to allow release of the FGF protein. These 
were purified by heparin-affinity chromatography, and in some instances by 
further ion-exchange chromatography. It was found that HaloTag did not adversely 
affect the expression of FGF1 and FGF10, both of which expressed well as soluble 
proteins. The N-terminal HaloTag fusion was found to enhance the expression and 
yield of FGF2, FGF3 and FGF7. Moreover, whereas FGF6, FGF8, FGF16, FGF17, FGF20 
and FGF22 were only expressed as insoluble proteins, their N-terminal HaloTag 
fusion counterparts (Halo-FGFs) were soluble, and could be successfully 
purified. However, cleavage of Halo-FGF6, -FGF8 and -FGF22 with TEV resulted in 
aggregation of the FGF protein. Measurement of phosphorylation of p42/44 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and of cell growth demonstrated that the 
HaloTag fusion proteins were biologically active. Thus, HaloTag provides a means 
to enhance the expression of soluble recombinant proteins, in addition to 
providing a chemical genetics route for covalent tagging of proteins.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.1060
PMCID: PMC4485707
PMID: 26137434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


580. Plasmid. 2013 Jan;69(1):16-23. doi: 10.1016/j.plasmid.2012.04.005. Epub 2012 Aug 
3.

A novel plasmid vector designed for chromosomal gene integration and expression: 
use for developing a genetically stable Escherichia coli melanin production 
strain.

Sabido A(1), Martínez LM, de Anda R, Martínez A, Bolívar F, Gosset G.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería Celular y Biocatálisis, Instituto de 
Biotecnología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Apdo. Postal 510-3, 
Cuernavaca, Morelos 62210, Mexico.

Recombinant Escherichia coli strains for the production of valuable products are 
usually generated by transformation with plasmid expression vectors. However, in 
spite of their usefulness, common problems associated with plasmid use include 
segregrational and structural instability as well as undesired copy-number 
effects. A viable alternative to plasmid use is chromosomal gene integration. 
With the purpose of facilitating the process of stable strain generation, a 
novel chromosomal integration vector was developed and tested. We describe the 
construction and use of novel expression vector pLoxGentrc that contains the 
strong trc promoter (P(trc)), a multiple cloning site, the T1 and T2 rrnB 
terminator sequences, the lacI(q) gene and the aacC1 gene conferring gentamicin 
resistance flanked by two loxP sites. As a demonstration of utility, 
melanin-producing strains of E. coli were generated employing this vector. 
Melanin is a polymer synthesized by the enzyme tyrosinase using l-tyrosine as 
substrate. The melA gene encoding a tyrosinase from Rhizobium etli was ligated 
to pLoxGentrc to generate pLoxGentrcmelA. This plasmid was transformed into E. 
coli W3110 to generate a melanin-producing strain. A region from this plasmid 
including P(trc)melA, T1 and T2 rrnB and the aacC1 gene was amplified by PCR 
employing primers with 45 b regions of homology to the lacZ gene. The PCR 
product was electroporated into strain W3110 that expressed the λ-Red enzymes. 
From this experiment, strain W3110P(tr)(c)melA, was obtained having the melA 
gene inserted in the lacZ locus. Fermentor cultures with strain 
W3110/pLoxGentrcmelA grown in the presence and absence of gentamicin as well as 
W3110P(tr)(c)melA without antibiotic revealed that the latter displays high 
genetic stability as well as the highest melanin titer. Vector pLoxGentrc should 
be useful during strain generation processes, enabling direct comparison of 
plasmid and chromosome-based production systems.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plasmid.2012.04.005
PMID: 22884755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Protein Sci. 2021 Jun;30(6):1235-1246. doi: 10.1002/pro.4088.

A useful epitope tag derived from maltose binding protein.

Lénon M(1)(2), Ke N(1), Ren G(1), Meuser ME(3), Loll PJ(3), Riggs P(1), Berkmen 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression and Modification, New England Biolabs, Ipswich, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Stress Adaptation and Metabolism in 
Enterobacteria Unit, UMR CNRS 2001, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.
(3)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Drexel University College of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Maltose binding protein (MBP) is used in recombinant protein expression as an 
affinity and solubility tag. The monoclonal antibody B48 binds MBP tightly and 
has no cross-reactivity to other proteins in an Escherichia coli lysate. This 
high level of specificity suggested that MBP contains an epitope that could 
prove useful as a purification and visualization tag for proteins expressed in 
E. coli. To discover the MBP epitope, a co-crystal structure was determined for 
MBP bound to its antibody and four amino acids of MBP were identified as 
critical for the binding interaction. Fusions of various fragments of MBP to the 
glutathione S-transferase protein were engineered in order to identify the 
smallest fragment still recognized by the α-MBP antibody. Stabilization of the 
epitope via mutational engineering resulted in a minimized 14 amino-acid tag.

© 2021 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.4088
PMCID: PMC8138532
PMID: 33896065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Na Ke, Guoping Ren, Mehmet Berkmen, and Paul 
Riggs are owners of New England Biolabs Stock.


582. Sci Rep. 2016 Jul 15;6:30080. doi: 10.1038/srep30080.

Genome engineering Escherichia coli for L-DOPA overproduction from glucose.

Wei T(1), Cheng BY(1), Liu JZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center and Biomedical Center, South China Sea 
Bio-Resource Exploitation and Utilization Collaborative Innovation Center, 
School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510275, China.

Genome engineering has become a powerful tool for creating useful strains in 
research and industry. In this study, we applied singleplex and multiplex genome 
engineering approaches to construct an E. coli strain for the production of 
L-DOPA from glucose. We first used the singleplex genome engineering approach to 
create an L-DOPA-producing strain, E. coli DOPA-1, by deleting transcriptional 
regulators (tyrosine repressor tyrR and carbon storage regulator A csrA), 
altering glucose transport from the phosphotransferase system (PTS) to 
ATP-dependent uptake and the phosphorylation system overexpressing galactose 
permease gene (galP) and glucokinase gene (glk), knocking out 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (zwf) and prephenate dehydratase and its 
leader peptide genes (pheLA) and integrating the fusion protein chimera of the 
downstream pathway of chorismate. Then, multiplex automated genome engineering 
(MAGE) based on 23 targets was used to further improve L-DOPA production. The 
resulting strain, E. coli DOPA-30N, produced 8.67 g/L of L-DOPA in 60 h in a 5 L 
fed-batch fermentation. This titer is the highest achieved in metabolically 
engineered E. coli having PHAH activity from glucose.

DOI: 10.1038/srep30080
PMCID: PMC4945936
PMID: 27417146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Sep;55(1):53-68. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.04.013. Epub 
2007 Apr 25.

A combined approach to improving large-scale production of tobacco etch virus 
protease.

Blommel PG(1), Fox BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin, 433 Babcock Drive, 
Madison, WI 53706, USA.

Tobacco etch virus NIa proteinase (TEV protease) is an important tool for the 
removal of fusion tags from recombinant proteins. Production of TEV protease in 
Escherichia coli has been hampered by insolubility and addressed by many 
different strategies. However, the best previous results and newer approaches 
for protein expression have not been combined to test whether further 
improvements are possible. Here, we use a quantitative, high-throughput assay 
for TEV protease activity in cell lysates to evaluate the efficacy of combining 
several previous modifications with new expression hosts and induction methods. 
Small-scale screening, purification and mass spectral analysis showed that TEV 
protease with a C-terminal poly-Arg tag was proteolysed in the cell to remove 
four of the five arginine residues. The truncated form was active and soluble 
but in contrast, the tagged version was also active but considerably less 
soluble. An engineered TEV protease lacking the C-terminal residues 238-242 was 
then used for further expression optimization. From this work, expression of TEV 
protease at high levels and with high solubility was obtained by using 
auto-induction medium at 37 degrees C. In combination with the expression work, 
an automated two-step purification protocol was developed that yielded 
His-tagged TEV protease with >99% purity, high catalytic activity and purified 
yields of approximately 400 mg/L of expression culture (approximately 15 mg pure 
TEV protease per gram of E. coli cell paste). Methods for producing 
glutathione-S-transferase-tagged TEV with similar yields (approximately 12 mg 
pure protease fusion per gram of E. coli cell paste) are also reported.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.04.013
PMCID: PMC2047602
PMID: 17543538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e20176. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020176. Epub 2011 May 20.

Expression and purification of recombinant hemoglobin in Escherichia coli.

Natarajan C(1), Jiang X, Fago A, Weber RE, Moriyama H, Storz JF.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska, 
United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant DNA technologies have played a pivotal role in the 
elucidation of structure-function relationships in hemoglobin (Hb) and other 
globin proteins. Here we describe the development of a plasmid expression system 
to synthesize recombinant Hbs in Escherichia coli, and we describe a protocol 
for expressing Hbs with low intrinsic solubilities. Since the α- and β-chain Hbs 
of different species span a broad range of solubilities, experimental protocols 
that have been optimized for expressing recombinant human HbA may often prove 
unsuitable for the recombinant expression of wildtype and mutant Hbs of other 
species.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: As a test case for our expression system, we 
produced recombinant Hbs of the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), a species 
that has been the subject of research on mechanisms of Hb adaptation to hypoxia. 
By experimentally assessing the combined effects of induction temperature, 
induction time and E. coli expression strain on the solubility of recombinant 
deer mouse Hbs, we identified combinations of expression conditions that greatly 
enhanced the yield of recombinant protein and which also increased the 
efficiency of post-translational modifications.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Our protocol should prove useful for the experimental 
study of recombinant Hbs in many non-human animals. One of the chief advantages 
of our protocol is that we can express soluble recombinant Hb without 
co-expressing molecular chaperones, and without the need for additional 
reconstitution or heme-incorporation steps. Moreover, our plasmid construct 
contains a combination of unique restriction sites that allows us to produce 
recombinant Hbs with different α- and β-chain subunit combinations by means of 
cassette mutagenesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020176
PMCID: PMC3098879
PMID: 21625463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


585. Microb Cell Fact. 2018 Nov 30;17(1):190. doi: 10.1186/s12934-018-1038-0.

Engineered E. coli W enables efficient 2,3-butanediol production from glucose 
and sugar beet molasses using defined minimal medium as economic basis.

Erian AM(1), Gibisch M(1), Pflügl S(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Chemical, Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Research 
Area Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität Wien, Gumpendorfer Straße 
1a, 1060, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Institute for Chemical, Environmental and Bioscience Engineering, Research 
Area Biochemical Engineering, Technische Universität Wien, Gumpendorfer Straße 
1a, 1060, Vienna, Austria. stefan.pfluegl@tuwien.ac.at.

BACKGROUND: Efficient microbial production of chemicals is often hindered by the 
cytotoxicity of the products or by the pathogenicity of the host strains. Hence 
2,3-butanediol, an important drop-in chemical, is an interesting alternative 
target molecule for microbial synthesis since it is non-cytotoxic. Metabolic 
engineering of non-pathogenic and industrially relevant microorganisms, such as 
Escherichia coli, have already yielded in promising 2,3-butanediol titers 
showing the potential of microbial synthesis of 2,3-butanediol. However, current 
microbial 2,3-butanediol production processes often rely on yeast extract as 
expensive additive, rendering these processes infeasible for industrial 
production.
RESULTS: The aim of this study was to develop an efficient 2,3-butanediol 
production process with E. coli operating on the premise of using cost-effective 
medium without complex supplements, considering second generation feedstocks. 
Different gene donors and promoter fine-tuning allowed for construction of a 
potent E. coli strain for the production of 2,3-butanediol as important drop-in 
chemical. Pulsed fed-batch cultivations of E. coli W using microaerobic 
conditions showed high diol productivity of 4.5 g l-1 h-1. Optimizing oxygen 
supply and elimination of acetoin and by-product formation improved the 
2,3-butanediol titer to 68 g l-1, 76% of the theoretical maximum yield, however, 
at the expense of productivity. Sugar beet molasses was tested as a potential 
substrate for industrial production of chemicals. Pulsed fed-batch cultivations 
produced 56 g l-1 2,3-butanediol, underlining the great potential of E. coli W 
as production organism for high value-added chemicals.
CONCLUSION: A potent 2,3-butanediol producing E. coli strain was generated by 
considering promoter fine-tuning to balance cell fitness and production 
capacity. For the first time, 2,3-butanediol production was achieved with 
promising titer, rate and yield and no acetoin formation from glucose in pulsed 
fed-batch cultivations using chemically defined medium without complex 
hydrolysates. Furthermore, versatility of E. coli W as production host was 
demonstrated by efficiently converting sucrose from sugar beet molasses into 
2,3-butanediol.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-018-1038-0
PMCID: PMC6267845
PMID: 30501633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. BMC Res Notes. 2016 Jul 9;9:338. doi: 10.1186/s13104-016-2145-9.

Microbubble assisted polyhydroxybutyrate production in Escherichia coli.

Inan K(1), Sal FA(2), Rahman A(3)(4), Putman RJ(5), Agblevor FA(5), Miller 
CD(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Karadeniz Technical University, 
Trabzon, Turkey.
(2)Department of Biology, Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey.
(3)Bioengineering Branch, Space Biosciences Division, NASA Ames Research Center, 
Moffett Field, Ames, CA, 94035-1000, USA.
(4)Universities Space Research Association, Mountain View, CA, 94043, USA.
(5)Department of Biological Engineering, Utah State University, 4105 Old Main 
Hill, Logan, UT, 84322-4105, USA.
(6)Department of Biological Engineering, Utah State University, 4105 Old Main 
Hill, Logan, UT, 84322-4105, USA. charles.miller@usu.edu.

BACKGROUND: One of the potential limitations of large scale aerobic Escherichia 
coli fermentation is the need for increased dissolved oxygen for culture growth 
and bioproduct generation. As culture density increases the poor solubility of 
oxygen in water becomes one of the limiting factors for cell growth and product 
formation. A potential solution is to use a microbubble dispersion (MBD) 
generating device to reduce the diameter and increase the surface area of 
sparged bubbles in the fermentor. In this study, a recombinant E. coli strain 
was used to produce polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) under conventional and MBD aerobic 
fermentation conditions.
RESULTS: In conventional fermentation operating at 350 rpm and 0.8 vvm air flow 
rate, an OD600 of 6.21 and PHB yield of 23 % (dry cell basis) was achieved. MBD 
fermentation with similar bioreactor operating parameters produced an OD600 of 
8.17 and PHB yield of 43 % PHB, which was nearly double that of the conventional 
fermentation.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that using a MBD generator can increase 
oxygen mass transfer into the aqueous phase, increasing E. coli growth and 
bioproduct generation.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-016-2145-9
PMCID: PMC4939048
PMID: 27393560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Mar;23(3):322-8. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1212.12014.

Expression and purification of human farnesoid X receptor-ligand binding domain 
as soluble form using a dual cistronic expression vector.

Kang H(1), Ye MB, Bahk YY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Biomedical and Health Science, Konkuk 
University, Chungju-City, 380-701, Korea.

In this study, we show the expression and purification of the human recombinant 
farnesoid X receptor (FXR)- ligand binding domain (LBD) protein in E. coli using 
a double cistronic vector, pACYCDuet-1, as a soluble form. We describe here the 
expression and characterization of a biologically active FXR-LBD(248-476). When 
expressed in the influence of bacterial promoters (P(T7) and P(Tac)) of the 
single cistronic expression vectors, the human recombinant FXR-LBD(248-476) was 
found to be totally insoluble. However, by using a double cistronic expression 
vector, we were able to obtain the human recombinant FXR-LBD(248-476) in a 
soluble form. To allow for biological activities, we have subcloned into the 
pACYCDuet-1 vector, expressed in E. coli cells at some optimized conditions, and 
purified and characterized the human recombinant active FXR-LBD(248-476) 
proteins using the fluorescence polarization assay. This suggests that the 
expression of FXR-LBD in a double cistronic vector improves its solubility and 
probably assists its correct folding for the biologically active form of the 
proteins. We suggest that this may represent a new approach to high expression 
of other nuclear receptors and may be useful as well for other classes of 
heterodimeric protein partners.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1212.12014
PMID: 23462004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Metab Eng. 2007 Jul;9(4):348-54. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2007.05.004. Epub 2007 May 
24.

Improvement of a CrtO-type of beta-carotene ketolase for canthaxanthin 
production in Methylomonas sp.

Tang XS(1), Shyr J, Tao L, Sedkova N, Cheng Q.

Author information:
(1)Biological and Chemical Sciences and Engineering, Central Research and 
Development, E. I. DuPont de Nemours Inc., Wilmington, DE 19880-0328, USA.

Two types of non-homologous beta-carotene ketolases (CrtW and CrtO) were 
previously described. We report improvement of a CrtO-type of beta-carotene 
ketolase for canthaxanthin production in a methylotrophic bacterium, 
Methylomonas sp. 16a, which could use the C1 substrate (methane or methanol) as 
sole carbon and energy source. The crtO gene from Rhodococcus erythropolis was 
improved for canthaxanthin production in an E. coli strain engineered to produce 
high titer carotenoids by error-prone PCR mutagenesis followed by in vitro 
recombination. The best mutants from protein engineering could produce 
approximately 90% of total carotenoids as canthaxanthin in the high titer E. 
coli strain compared to approximately 20% canthaxanthin produced by the starting 
gene. Canthaxanthin production in Methylomonas was also significantly improved 
to approximately 50% of total carotenoids by the mutant genes. Further 
improvement of canthaxanthin production to approximately 93% in Methylomonas was 
achieved by increased expression of the best mutant gene. Some mutations were 
found in many of the improved genes, suggesting that these sites, and possibly 
the regions around these sites, were important for improving the crtO's activity 
for canthaxanthin production.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2007.05.004
PMID: 17627860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2007 Jun;47(3):498-502.

[Expression, purification and antigenic characterization of the Epitope-G1 gene 
of bovine ephemeral fever virus in Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Zheng FY(1), Lin GZ, Qiu CQ.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Virology of Ministry of Agriculture, State Key 
Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, Lanzhou Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou 730046, China. 
zfycaas@126.com

The epitope-G1 gene, cloned from the pMD-G plasmid including G protein gene of 
bovine ephemeral fever virus (BEFV), was subcloned into expression vector 
pGEX-4T-1 to construct pGEX-G1 recombinant plasmid successfully. The pGEX-G1 was 
transformed into E. coli BL21(DE3) to be induced with IPTG. The optimal 
expression conditions for G1 gene were obtained, which included reaction 
temperature 16 degrees C, induction time 18h and IPTG concentration 0.1 mmol/L. 
The soluble target protein was purified with Glutathione Sepharose TM(4B) and 
the purity reached 80%. The inclusion body washed with 2% deoxycholic acid 
sodium salt and dissolved with 0.5% N-lauroyl sarcosine sodium was recovered by 
the way of dialysis, then the protein was purified with Glutathione Sepharose 
TM(4B) and its purity was above 85%. The protein purified had nicer reaction 
activity by analysis of Western blot. The target protein was used as coating 
antigen to detect the sera against BEFV by an indirect ELISA. The 12 positive 
sera to BEFV were detected and the average of OD490 was 1.813 +/- 0.231, while 
the average of OD490 from 12 negative sera was 0.359 +/- 0.032, and the 
distinction was very remarkable (P < 0.01). All the rabbits inoculated with the 
target protein had produced high titer of antibodies, which indicated that the 
target protein had immunological activity. The average of OD49, detecting the 8 
positive sera to rabies virus (RV) with the target protein purified was 0.324 
+/- 0.031 which closed the datum obtained from the negative sera to BEFV, and it 
showed no cross-reaction between the sera to RV and BEFV. All the results above 
indicated that the target protein expressed had nicer biological activity and 
specificity, so the protein could be used as coating antigen to develop ELISA 
Kit for diagnosing BEF.

PMID: 17672313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2003 May;19(3):248-51.

[Study on the preparing of polyclonal antibodies against plant-selected maker 
gene hpt expression protein by DNA immunization].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang LC(1), Zhu Z, Yang XG.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Trance Element Nutrition of the Ministry of National 
Health, Institute of Nutrition and Food Safety, Chinese Center for Diseases 
Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.

AIM: To prepare the polyclonal antibodies (pAbs) against HPT, a kind of 
plant-selected maker gene encoding protein, by DNA immunization technique and 
explore the influencing factors for this gene immunization.
METHODS: The coding sequence of hpt was cloned into eukaryotic expression vector 
pCDNA3. The sequence of the plasmid pCDNA3-HPT was demonstrated by restricting 
enzyme digestion analysis and DNA sequencing. The sequence-correct recombinant 
plasmids were purified and used to immunize BALB/c mice. The titer and 
specificity of antisera were detected by ELISA and Western blot, respecitively.
RESULTS: No pAb against HPT was detected following three immunization with hpt 
genes. Then mice were divided into three groups when the forth booster 
immunization was carried out: 1st group (immunization with the endotoxin-free 
recombinant plasmids), 2nd group (immunization with (His)(6)-HPT fusion protein 
expressed in E.coli) and 3rd group (immunization with the same plasmids as 
before mentioned). As a result, the pAb titer of the 1st group mice increased to 
1:200, and the that of 2nd group was up to 1:2 000. Yet the 3rd group detected 
no anti-HPT antibody. Western blot analysis had proved that antisera of the 
first two groups could produce specific binding reaction to the purified 
GST-HPT, (His)(6)-HPT protein and their expressed product (bacterial protein).
CONCLUSION: We have got successfully the specific pAb against HPT by DNA 
immunization, but its titer is yet unsatisfactory, inferring that the character 
of the hpt gene self and its expression level may play an important role. In 
order to raise level of serum antibody prepared by DNA immunization, the farther 
study on various influencing factors still need to be performed.

PMID: 15155084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2004 Apr 20;86(2):188-95. doi: 10.1002/bit.10827.

Enhancing multiple disulfide bonded protein folding in a cell-free system.

Yin G(1), Swartz JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305-5025, USA.

A recombinant plasminogen activator (PA) protein with nine disulfide bonds was 
expressed in our cell-free protein synthesis system. Due to the unstable and 
reducing environment in the initial E. coli-based cell-free system, disulfide 
bonds could not be formed efficiently. By treating the cell extract with 
iodoacetamide and utilizing a mixture of oxidized and reduced glutathione, a 
stabilized redox potential was optimized. Addition of DsbC, replacing 
polyethylene glycol with spermidine and putrescine to create a more natural 
environment, adding Skp, an E. coli periplasmic chaperone, and expressing PA at 
30 degrees C increased the solubility of the protein product as well as the 
yield of active PA. Taken together, the modifications enabled the production of 
more than 60 microg/mL of bioactive PA in a simple 3-h batch reaction.

Copyright 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.10827
PMID: 15052638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2006 Feb 
28;24(1):31-4.

[Preparation, characterization and preliminary application of recombinant 
protein AP33 of trichomonas vaginalis].

[Article in Chinese]

Liang SH(1), Huang HC, Pan CW, Xing WL, Qin Q, Zhuge QY, Tan F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, Wenzhou Medical College, Wenzhou 325035, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone ap33 gene of Trichomonas vaginalis( T. v), construct 
prokaryotic expression system of the gene and identify its antigenicity and 
immunogenicity.
METHODS: The total RNA was extracted from a clinical isolate Tv317 and the cDNA 
was synthesized by reverse transcription. The ap33 gene from cDNA of Tv317 was 
amplified by PCR. The nucleotide sequence of the target DNA amplification 
fragment was sequenced after T-A cloning. The expression vector pET32a (+) with 
inserted ap33 gene was constructed. Recombinant fusion protein AP33 was 
expressed in E. coli strain BL21DE3 induced by IPTG at different dosages. 
Western blotting was applied to determine immunoreactivity of the recombinant 
fusion protein AP33 with antibody against whole cell of T. v. Double agar 
diffusion was applied to determine immunogenicity of the recombinant fusion 
protein AP33 with rabbit antiserum immunized with the recombinant fusion protein 
AP33, and ELISA with antigen of T. v whole cell was applied to determine 
immunogenicity of the recombinant protein AP33. Positive human sera were tested 
by ELISA with the recombinant fusion protein AP33.
RESULTS: High homology of nucleotide and amino acid sequences was revealed 
between the cloned ap33 and the corresponding gene. The recombinant protein 
showed a high expression level. The recombinant protein was recognized by 
anti-T. v polyclonal antibody from rabbit, and showed a high titer. The clinical 
T. v isolates showed high ap33 expression level and stimulated the production of 
specific antibody. Antibody against AP33 was detected in 78% of the 50 patients 
infected with T. v by ELISA.
CONCLUSION: A prokaryotic expression system of T. v ap33 gene has been 
established. The expressed fusion protein AP33 shows satisfactory antigenicity 
and immunogenicity.

PMID: 16866139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2018 May;21(5):517-524. doi: 
10.22038/IJBMS.2018.27017.6609.

An LTB-entrapped protein in PLGA nanoparticles preserves against enterotoxin of 
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.

Kordbacheh E(1), Nazarian S(1), Sadeghi D(1), Hajizadeh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Imam Hossein University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, Tehran, 
Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is known as the most common 
bacterial causes of diarrheal diseases related to morbidity and mortality. 
Heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) is a part of major virulence factors in ETEC 
pathogenesis. Antigen entrapment into nanoparticles (NPs) can protect them and 
enhance their immunogenicity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study, recombinant LTB protein was 
expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and purified by an Ni-NTA agarose column. The 
protein was entrapped in PLGA polymer by the double emulsion method. NPs were 
characterized physicochemically and the protein release from the NPs was 
evaluated. ELISA assay was performed for investigation of raised antibody 
against the recombinant protein in mice. The anti-toxicity and anti-adherence 
attributes of the immune sera against ETEC were also evaluated.
RESULTS: It showed the successful cloning of a 313 bp DNA fragment encoding LTB 
protein in the pET28a vector. Over-expression in BL21 (DE3) led to the formation 
of corresponding 15.5 kDa protein bands in the SDS-PAGE gel. Western blotting by 
using anti-CTX confirmed the purified LTB. Protein-entrapped NPs had a spherical 
shape with the size of 238 nm mean diameter and 85% entrapment efficiency. 
Immunological analyses showed the production of a high titer of specific IgG 
antibody in immunized animals. The neutralizing antibody in the sera of 
immunized animals was approved by GM1 binding and Ileal loop assays.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate the efficacy of the entrapped LTB protein as an 
effective immunogen which induces the humoral responses.

DOI: 10.22038/IJBMS.2018.27017.6609
PMCID: PMC6000211
PMID: 29922433


594. Mol Biol Rep. 2012 Feb;39(2):857-64. doi: 10.1007/s11033-011-0809-z. Epub 2011 
May 13.

Expression, purification and characterization of low-glycosylation influenza 
neuraminidase in α-1,6-mannosyltransferase defective Pichia pastoris.

Yang YL(1), Chang SH, Gong X, Wu J, Liu B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microorganism Engineering, Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, 
20 Dongdajie Street, Fengtai District, Beijing 100071, China.

Influenza A viruses expose two major surface glycoproteins, hemagglutinin (HA) 
and neuraminidase (NA). Although N-glycosylation is essential for many 
glycoproteins, the glycoproteins expressed in yeast are sometimes 
hyper-glycosylated, which maybe a primary hindrance to the exploitation of 
therapeutic glycoprotein production because glycoproteins decorated with 
yeast-specific glycans are immunogenic and show poor pharmacokinetic properties 
in humans. To elucidate the NA with different glycosylation in interaction with 
immunogenicity, here we reported the heterologous expression of influenza NA 
glycoprotein derived from influenza virus A/newCaledonia/20/99(H1N1) in 
wide-type Pichia pastoris, α-1,6-mannosyltransferase (och1)-defective P. 
pastoris and Escherichia coli. We also assessed the immunogenicity of 
hyper-glycosylated NA expressed in the wide-type, low-glycosylated NA expressed 
in och1-defective P. pastoris strain and non-glycosylated NA produced in E. 
coli. Recombinant NA was expressed in wide-type P. pastoris as a 59-97 above kDa 
glycoprotein, 52-57 kDa in the och1 defective strain, and as a 45 kDa 
non-glycoprotein in E. coli. The antibody titers of Balb/c mice were tested 
after the mice were immunized three times with 0.2, 1, or 3 μg purified 
recombinant NA. Our results demonstrated that after the second immunization, the 
antibody titer elicited with 1 μg low-glycosylated NA was 1:5,500, while it was 
1:10 and 1:13 when elicited by 1 μg hyper-glycosylated and non-glycosylated NA. 
In the 0.2 μg dose groups, a high antibody titer (1:4,900) was only found after 
third immunization by low-glycosylated NA, respectively. These results suggest 
that low-glycosylation in och1-defective P. pastoris enhances the immunogenicity 
of recombinant NA and elicits similar antibody titers with less antigen when 
compared with hyper- and non-glycosylated NA. Thus, och1-defective P. pastoris 
may be a better yeast expression system for production of glycoproteins to 
research immunogenic characterization.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-011-0809-z
PMID: 21567198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. AMB Express. 2019 Dec 31;10(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s13568-019-0926-y.

Optimization and scale-up production of Zika virus ΔNS1 in Escherichia coli: 
application of Response Surface Methodology.

Kanno AI(1), Leite LCC(1), Pereira LR(2), de Jesus MJR(2), Andreata-Santos R(2), 
Alves RPDS(2), Durigon EL(3), Ferreira LCS(2), Gonçalves VM(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Desenvolvimento de Vacinas, Instituto Butantan, Av Vital 
Brasil, 1500, São Paulo, SP, 05503-900, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Desenvolvimento de Vacinas, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Virologia, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade de 
São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Desenvolvimento de Vacinas, Instituto Butantan, Av Vital 
Brasil, 1500, São Paulo, SP, 05503-900, Brazil. 
viviane.goncalves@butantan.gov.br.

Diagnosing Zika virus (ZIKV) infections has been challenging due to the 
cross-reactivity of induced antibodies with other flavivirus. The concomitant 
occurrence of ZIKV and Dengue virus (DENV) in endemic regions requires 
diagnostic tools with the ability to distinguish these two viral infections. 
Recent studies demonstrated that immunoassays using the C-terminal fragment of 
ZIKV NS1 antigen (ΔNS1) can be used to discriminate ZIKV from DENV infections. 
In order to be used in serological tests, the expression/solubility of ΔNS1 and 
growth of recombinant E. coli strain were optimized by Response Surface 
Methodology. Temperature, time and IPTG concentration were evaluated. According 
to the model, the best condition determined in small scale cultures was 21 °C 
for 20 h with 0.7 mM of IPTG, which predicted 7.5 g/L of biomass and 962 mg/L of 
ΔNS1. These conditions were validated and used in a 6-L batch in the bioreactor, 
which produced 6.4 g/L of biomass and 500 mg/L of ΔNS1 in 12 h of induction. The 
serological ELISA test performed with purified ΔNS1 showed low cross-reactivity 
with antibodies from DENV-infected human subjects. Denaturation of ΔNS1 
decreased the detection of anti-ZIKV antibodies, thus indicating the 
contribution of conformational epitopes and confirming the importance of 
properly folded ΔNS1 for the specificity of the serological analyses. Obtaining 
high yields of soluble ΔNS1 supports the viability of an effective serologic 
diagnostic test capable of differentiating ZIKV from other flavivirus 
infections.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-019-0926-y
PMCID: PMC6938527
PMID: 31893321

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have a patent application on the 
gene sequence of the Zika virus used for differential diagnosis (Number: BR 10 
2016011318 0) and another patent on the ΔNS1 production process developed 
(Number: BR 10 2018067345 9).


596. Int J Biol Macromol. 2021 Mar 31;174:352-361. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.01.129. Epub 2021 Jan 23.

Recombinant pebulin protein, a type 2 ribosome-inactivating protein isolated 
from dwarf elder (Sambucus ebulus L.) shows anticancer and antifungal activities 
in vitro.

Rezaei-Moshaei M(1), Dehestani A(2), Bandehagh A(3), Pakdin-Parizi A(4), Golkar 
M(5), Heidari-Japelaghi R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Breeding and Biotechnology, the University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: m.rezaei@ausmt.ac.ir.
(2)Genetics and Agricultural Biotechnology Institute of Tabarestan, Sari 
Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources University, Sari, Iran. Electronic 
address: a.dehestani@sanru.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Plant Breeding and Biotechnology, the University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Genetics and Agricultural Biotechnology Institute of Tabarestan, Sari 
Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources University, Sari, Iran.
(5)Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Plant Breeding and Biotechnology, the University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: rezaheidari@tabrizu.ac.ir.

In this study, encoding sequence of a new type 2 RIP (pebulin) was isolated and 
cloned from dwarf elder (Sambucus ebulus L.) native to the northern regions of 
Iran. The nucleotide sequence of pebulin was ligated to the pET-28a(+) 
expression plasmid and cloned into the E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) in order to 
express heterologously of recombinant protein. The recombinant pebulin protein 
was mainly produced in the form of insoluble inclusion bodies probably because 
to absence of N-glycosylation process in E. coli. Therefore, in order to 
increase the expression of recombinant protein in soluble form, co-expression of 
the target protein with the pG-Tf2 chaperone plasmid and incubation of bacterial 
culture under low temperature were used to enhance solubility and accumulation 
of recombinant protein. After purification of the recombinant protein using 
affinity chromatography method, the bioactivity of pebulin was analyzed by 
hemagglutination, anticancer, and antifungal assays. The results of the 
hemagglutination assay showed that purified pebulin agglutinated erythrocytes in 
all human blood groups. In addition, pebulin considerably inhibited the 
proliferation of cancer cell lines MCF-7 and HT-29 in a time- and dose-dependent 
manner and indicated remarkably growth-inhibiting effect against the plant 
pathogenic fungi such as Alternaria solani and Fusarium oxysporum.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.01.129
PMID: 33497693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


597. Bioinformatics. 2020 Sep 15;36(18):4691-4698. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa578.

Solubility-Weighted Index: fast and accurate prediction of protein solubility.

Bhandari BK(1), Gardner PP(1)(2), Lim CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(2)Biomolecular Interaction Centre, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New 
Zealand.

MOTIVATION: Recombinant protein production is a widely used technique in the 
biotechnology and biomedical industries, yet only a quarter of target proteins 
are soluble and can therefore be purified.
RESULTS: We have discovered that global structural flexibility, which can be 
modeled by normalized B-factors, accurately predicts the solubility of 12 216 
recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. We have optimized these 
B-factors, and derived a new set of values for solubility scoring that further 
improves prediction accuracy. We call this new predictor the 
'Solubility-Weighted Index' (SWI). Importantly, SWI outperforms many existing 
protein solubility prediction tools. Furthermore, we have developed 'SoDoPE' 
(Soluble Domain for Protein Expression), a web interface that allows users to 
choose a protein region of interest for predicting and maximizing both protein 
expression and solubility.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The SoDoPE web server and source code are 
freely available at https://tisigner.com/sodope and 
https://github.com/Gardner-BinfLab/TISIGNER-ReactJS, respectively. The code and 
data for reproducing our analysis can be found at 
https://github.com/Gardner-BinfLab/SoDoPE_paper_2020.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa578
PMCID: PMC7750957
PMID: 32559287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Microb Cell Fact. 2007 Jun 6;6:18. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-6-18.

Homologous high-throughput expression and purification of highly conserved E 
coli proteins.

Ergin A(1), Büssow K, Sieper J, Thiel A, Duchmann R, Adam T.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charité, Campus Charité Mitte, Dorotheenstr, 96, 
10117 Berlin, Germany. asgar.ergin@charite.de

BACKGROUND: Genetic factors and a dysregulated immune response towards commensal 
bacteria contribute to the pathogenesis of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD). 
Animal models demonstrated that the normal intestinal flora is crucial for the 
development of intestinal inflammation. However, due to the complexity of the 
intestinal flora, it has been difficult to design experiments for detection of 
proinflammatory bacterial antigen(s) involved in the pathogenesis of the 
disease. Several studies indicated a potential association of E. coli with IBD. 
In addition, T cell clones of IBD patients were shown to cross react towards 
antigens from different enteric bacterial species and thus likely responded to 
conserved bacterial antigens. We therefore chose highly conserved E. coli 
proteins as candidate antigens for abnormal T cell responses in IBD and used 
high-throughput techniques for cloning, expression and purification under native 
conditions of a set of 271 conserved E. coli proteins for downstream immunologic 
studies.
RESULTS: As a standardized procedure, genes were PCR amplified and cloned into 
the expression vector pQTEV2 in order to express proteins N-terminally fused to 
a seven-histidine-tag. Initial small-scale expression and purification under 
native conditions by metal chelate affinity chromatography indicated that the 
vast majority of target proteins were purified in high yields. Targets that 
revealed low yields after purification probably due to weak solubility were 
shuttled into Gateway (Invitrogen) destination vectors in order to enhance 
solubility by N-terminal fusion of maltose binding protein (MBP), N-utilizing 
substance A (NusA), or glutathione S-transferase (GST) to the target protein. In 
addition, recombinant proteins were treated with polymyxin B coated magnetic 
beads in order to remove lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Thus, 73% of the targeted 
proteins could be expressed and purified in large-scale to give soluble proteins 
in the range of 500 microg.
CONCLUSION: Here, we report a cost-efficient procedure to produce around 200 
soluble recombinant E. coli proteins in large-scale, including removal of LPS by 
polymyxin B coated beads for subsequent use of the proteins in downstream 
immunological studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-6-18
PMCID: PMC1914363
PMID: 17553160


599. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Oct;114:128-35. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.06.006. Epub 
2015 Jul 4.

Optimizing conditions for production of high levels of soluble recombinant human 
growth hormone using Taguchi method.

Savari M(1), Zarkesh Esfahani SH(2), Edalati M(3), Biria D(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran. Electronic address: 
Marzieh.savari@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan 
81746-73695, Iran. Electronic address: s.h.zarkesh@sheffield.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Pathology, Medical School, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hezar Jerib Street, Isfahan 81746-73695, Iran. Electronic address: 
masoud_edalati@hotmail.com.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Advanced Sciences and Technologies, 
University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran. Electronic address: d.biria@ast.ui.ac.ir.

Human growth hormone (hGH) is synthesized and stored by somatotroph cells of the 
anterior pituitary gland and can effect on body metabolism. This protein can be 
used to treat hGH deficiency, Prader-Willi syndrome and Turner syndrome. The 
limitations in current technology for soluble recombinant protein production, 
such as inclusion body formation, decrease its usage for therapeutic purposes. 
To achieve high levels of soluble form of recombinant human growth hormone 
(rhGH) we used suitable host strain, appropriate induction temperature, 
induction time and culture media composition. For this purpose, 32 experiments 
were designed using Taguchi method and the levels of produced proteins in all 32 
experiments were evaluated primarily by ELISA and dot blotting and finally the 
purified rhGH protein products assessed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting 
techniques. Our results indicate that media, bacterial strains, temperature and 
induction time have significant effects on the production of rhGH. The low 
cultivation temperature of 25°C, TB media (with 3% ethanol and 0.6M glycerol), 
Origami strain and a 10-h induction time increased the solubility of human 
growth hormone.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.06.006
PMID: 26151869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Microb Cell Fact. 2005 Apr 22;4(1):11. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-4-11.

Sequence determinants of protein aggregation: tools to increase protein 
solubility.

Ventura S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i Biomedicina and Departament de Bioquímica i 
Biologia Molecular, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra 
(Barcelona), Spain. salvador.ventura@uab.es.

Escherichia coli is one of the most widely used hosts for the production of 
recombinant proteins. However, very often the target protein accumulates into 
insoluble aggregates in a misfolded and biologically inactive form. Bacterial 
inclusion bodies are major bottlenecks in protein production and are hampering 
the development of top priority research areas such structural genomics. 
Inclusion body formation was formerly considered to occur via non-specific 
association of hydrophobic surfaces in folding intermediates. Increasing 
evidence, however, indicates that protein aggregation in bacteria resembles to 
the well-studied process of amyloid fibril formation. Both processes appear to 
rely on the formation of specific, sequence-dependent, intermolecular 
interactions driving the formation of structured protein aggregates. This 
similarity in the mechanisms of aggregation will probably allow applying 
anti-aggregational strategies already tested in the amyloid context to the less 
explored area of protein aggregation inside bacteria. Specifically, new 
sequence-based approaches appear as promising tools to tune protein aggregation 
in biotechnological processes.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-4-11
PMCID: PMC1087874
PMID: 15847694


601. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2018 Nov 30;506(3):731-738. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.10.147. Epub 2018 Oct 30.

Inhibition of PD1:PD-L1 interaction by an E. coli-derived optimized PD1 variant.

Brand Shwartz M(1), Assor M(2), Dotan N(2), Ratzon E(1), Cohen E(2), Ruimi N(1), 
Bloch I(1), Gal M(3), Yadid I(4).

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Department, MIGAL -Galilee Research Institute, Kiryat-Shmona, 
11016, Israel.
(2)Biochemistry Department, MIGAL -Galilee Research Institute, Kiryat-Shmona, 
11016, Israel; Faculty of Sciences and Technology, Tel-Hai Academic College, 
Upper Galilee, 1220800, Israel.
(3)Biochemistry Department, MIGAL -Galilee Research Institute, Kiryat-Shmona, 
11016, Israel; Faculty of Sciences and Technology, Tel-Hai Academic College, 
Upper Galilee, 1220800, Israel. Electronic address: MaayanG@migal.org.il.
(4)Biochemistry Department, MIGAL -Galilee Research Institute, Kiryat-Shmona, 
11016, Israel; Faculty of Sciences and Technology, Tel-Hai Academic College, 
Upper Galilee, 1220800, Israel. Electronic address: ItamarYa@migal.org.il.

Immune-checkpoint receptors are a set of signal transduction proteins that can 
stimulate or inhibit specific anti-tumor responses. It is well established that 
cancer cells interact with different immune checkpoints to shut down T-cell 
response, thereby enabling cancer proliferation. Given the importance of immune 
checkpoint receptors, a structure-function analysis of these systems is 
imperative. However, recombinant expression and purification of these membrane 
originated proteins is still a challenge. Therefore, many attempts are being 
made to improve their expression and solubility while preserving their 
biological relevance. For this purpose, we designed an E. coli-based 
optimization system that enables the acquisition of mutations that increases 
protein solubility and affinity towards its native ligand, while maintaining 
biological activity. Here we focused on the well-characterized extracellular 
domain of the 'programmed cell death protein 1' (PD1), an immune checkpoint 
receptor known to inhibit T-cell proliferation by interacting with its ligands 
PD-L1 and PD-L2. The simple ELISA-based screening system shown here enabled the 
identification of high-affinity, highly soluble, functional variants derived 
from the extracellular domain of human PD1. The system was based on the 
expression of a GST-tagged variants library in E. coli, which enabled the 
selection of improved PD1 variants after a single optimization round. Within 
only two screening rounds, the most active variant showed a 5-fold higher 
affinity and 2.4-fold enhanced cellular activity as compared to the wild type 
protein. This scheme can be translated toward other types of challenging 
receptors toward development of research tools or alternative therapeutics.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.10.147
PMID: 30384998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. ACS Synth Biol. 2016 Nov 18;5(11):1264-1274. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.6b00105. 
Epub 2016 Jun 9.

Microbial Synthesis of 5-Aminolevulinic Acid and Its Coproduction with 
Polyhydroxybutyrate.

Li T(1), Guo YY(1)(2), Qiao GQ(1), Chen GQ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, School of Life Science, Tsinghua 
University , Beijing 100084, China.
(2)Center for Synthetic and Systems Biology, Tsinghua University , Beijing 
100084, China.
(3)MOE Key Lab of Industrial Biocatalysis, Tsinghua University , Beijing 100081, 
China.

5-Aminolevulinic acid (ALA), an important cell metabolic intermediate useful for 
cancer treatments or plant growth regulator, was produced by recombinant 
Escherichia coli expressing the codon optimized mitochondrial 5-aminolevulinic 
acid synthase (EC: 2.3.1.37, hem1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae controlled via 
the plasmid encoding T7 expression system with a T7 RNA polymerase. When a more 
efficient autoinduced expression approach free of IPTG was applied, the 
recombinant containing antibiotic-free stabilized plasmid was able to produce 
3.6 g/L extracellular ALA in shake flask studies under optimized temperature. A 
recombinant E. coli expressing synthesis pathways of poly-3-hydroxybutyrate 
(PHB) and ALA resulted in coproduction of 43% PHB in the cell dry weights and 
1.6 g/L extracellular ALA, leading to further reduction on ALA cost as two 
products were harvested both intracellularly and extracellularly. This was the 
first study on coproduction of extracellular ALA and intracellular PHB for 
improving bioprocessing efficiency. The cost of ALA production could be further 
reduced by employing a Halomonas spp. TD01 able to grow and produce ALA and PHB 
under continuous and unsterile conditions even though ALA had the highest titer 
of only 0.7 g/L at the present time.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.6b00105
PMID: 27238205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Mol Cells. 2010 Aug;30(2):127-35. doi: 10.1007/s10059-010-0097-9. Epub 2010 Jul 
23.

N-terminal pI determines the solubility of a recombinant protein lacking an 
internal transmembrane-like domain in E. coli.

Lee SJ(1), Han YH, Kim YO, Nam BH, Kong HJ, Kim KK.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Division, National Fisheries Research and Development 
Institute, Pusan 619-902, Korea. sangjl@nfrdi.go.kr

We examined whether the isoelectric point (pI) of the Nterminal region of the 
recombinant protein 7xMefp1 acts as a universal index for expression of the 
protein in soluble form in E. coli. Expression analysis of 7xMefp1 fused to 
various N-terminal sequences with pI values ranging from 2.73 to 13.35 yielded 
three pI range-specific curves (acidic, neutral, and alkaline curves at pI 
2.73-3.25, 4.61-9.58, and 9.90-13.35, respectively) for soluble expression (by 
facilitated diffusion) as a proportion of total protein. For neutral N-termini 
(pI 4.61-9.58), the total amount of rMefp1 expressed was minimally affected by 
DeltaG(RNA) for unfolding the mRNA secondary structure. The highly hydrophilic 
nature of longer N-terminal sequences with strongly acidic and alkaline pI 
values reduced the translation of rMefp1-encoding transcripts, thereby reducing 
the amount of soluble rMefp1 produced. After characterizing both feedback and 
non-feedback regulation in the acidic, alkaline, and neutral pI ranges, we 
suggest that three different pI range-specific soluble expression curves exist 
for the recombinant protein, each defined by specific ranges of the leader 
sequence pI values.

DOI: 10.1007/s10059-010-0097-9
PMID: 20680485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Biotechnol Lett. 2007 Oct;29(10):1483-91. doi: 10.1007/s10529-007-9415-5. Epub 
2007 May 31.

Transport of heterologous proteins to the periplasmic space of Pseudomonas 
fluorescens using a variety of native signal sequences.

Retallack DM(1), Schneider JC, Mitchell J, Chew L, Liu H.

Author information:
(1)The Dow Chemical Company, Core Biotechnology Research and Development, 5501 
Oberlin Dr, San Diego, CA 92121, USA. dmretallack@dow.com

Bacterial expression of recombinant proteins containing disulfide bonds is 
facilitated by transport of the proteins to the periplasmic space. Several 
Pseudomonas fluorescens signal sequences have been identified that efficiently 
direct proteins to the periplasm and provide solubility and yield advantages 
over the production of proteins fused to the PelB signal sequence in E. coli. 
For a single chain antibody fragment, the final yield varied from about 1 g/l to 
10 g/l when expression in P. fluorescens involved fusion to various P. 
fluorescens signal sequences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-007-9415-5
PMID: 17541504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Nov;30(11):1146-9.

[Enolase of Streptococcus suis serotype 2 is involved in the antiphagocytosis of 
Streptococcus suis].

[Article in Chinese]

Huo C(1), Ji Y(1), Ren L(1), Zhang J(1), Kong J(1).

Author information:
(1)Yanjing Medical College, Capital Medical University, Beijing 101300, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare the recombinant enolase of Streptococcus suis (SsEno), 
analyze the effect of SsEno on the antiphagocytosis by antibody-blocking assay 
in the human blood bactericidal model, and identify the human fibrinogen 
(hFg)-binding activity of SsEno protein.
METHODS: SsEno gene was amplified using the primers designed according to 
05ZYH33 genome sequences and cloned into the expression vector pET28a to 
construct recombinant plasmids. The plasmids were transformed into E.coli 
BL21(DE3) and induced to express by IPTG. The expression level was analyzed by 
SDS-PAGE. The recombinant proteins were purified by nickel affinity 
chromatography and identified by Western blotting. High-titer specific antiserum 
against SsEno was prepared by immunizing rabbits with the purified recombinant 
proteins. The impact of SsEno on antiphagocytosis was analyzed by 
antibody-blocking assay in the human blood bactericidal model. In addition, the 
specific binding activity with hFg was identified by Far-Western blotting and 
ELISA.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression vector of hisSsEno (SsEno with His tag) was 
constructed and high-purity recombinant expressed protein was purified. In 
specific antibody blocking assay, antiserum against the SsEno significantly 
decreased the percent of survival bacteria as observed in high virulent strain 
05ZYH33. Additionally, hisSsEno was proved to have the specific binding activity 
with hFg.
CONCLUSION: SsEno was found to be a potential antiphagocytic factor of S. suis 
with a specific binding to hFg, suggesting that SsEno play an important role in 
antiphagocytosis of S. suis.

PMID: 25374077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Int J Biol Macromol. 2006 Aug 15;39(1-3):111-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2006.02.027. Epub 2006 Apr 17.

Screening for soluble expression constructs using cell-free protein synthesis.

Lamla T(1), Hoerer S, Bauer MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Lead Discovery, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH and Co. KG, 
Birkendorfer Strasse 65, D-88397 Biberach/Riss, Germany. 
thorsten.lamla@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.com

The SH2 domain of STAT6 was chosen to test the in vitro protein synthesis as a 
screening tool. Goal of the screening was to obtain constructs which produce 
soluble protein in E. coli. The expression of 70 different constructs using an 
E. coli based cell-free system revealed two constructs, which give partly 
soluble protein. The introduction of two mutations, which had been suggested by 
a structural based alignment of 20 different SH2 domains lead to increased 
solubility. The expression of both constructs in E. coli followed by an affinity 
and size exclusion chromatography resulted in milligram quantities of highly 
purified protein.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2006.02.027
PMID: 16616775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2004;5(3):217-29. doi: 
10.1023/b:jsfg.0000031965.37625.0e.

His tag effect on solubility of human proteins produced in Escherichia coli: a 
comparison between four expression vectors.

Woestenenk EA(1), Hammarström M, van den Berg S, Härd T, Berglund H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), AlbaNova 
University Center, Stockholm, Sweden.

We have compared four different vectors for expression of proteins with N- or 
C-terminal hexahistidine (His6) tags in Escherichia coli by testing these on 20 
human proteins. We looked at a total recombinant protein production levels per 
gram dry cell weight, solubility of the target proteins, and yield of soluble 
and total protein when purified by immobilized metal ion affinity purification. 
It was found that, in general, both N- and C-terminal His6 tags have a 
noticeable negative affect on protein solubility, but the effect is target 
protein specific. A solubilizing fusion tag was able to partly counteract this 
negative effect. Most target proteins could be purified under denaturing 
conditions and about half of the proteins could be purified under physiological 
conditions. The highest protein production levels and yield of purified protein 
were obtained from a construct with C-terminal His tag. We also observe a large 
variation in cell growth rate, which we determined to be partly caused by the 
expression vectors and partly by the targets. This variation was found to be 
independent of the production level, solubility and tertiary structure content 
of the target proteins.

DOI: 10.1023/b:jsfg.0000031965.37625.0e
PMID: 15503425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 May;103(9):3693-3704. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-019-09707-0. Epub 2019 Mar 5.

The role of the acyl-CoA thioesterase "YciA" in the production of 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate by recombinant Escherichia coli.

Guevara-Martínez M(1)(2), Perez-Zabaleta M(1)(2), Gustavsson M(1), Quillaguamán 
J(2), Larsson G(1), van Maris AJA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Biotechnology, School of Engineering Sciences in 
Chemistry, Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, AlbaNova 
University Center, SE 10691, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, Center of Biotechnology, Universidad Mayor 
de San Simón, Cochabamba, Bolivia.
(3)Department of Industrial Biotechnology, School of Engineering Sciences in 
Chemistry, Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, AlbaNova 
University Center, SE 10691, Stockholm, Sweden. tonvm@kth.se.

Biotechnologically produced (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate is an interesting pre-cursor 
for antibiotics, vitamins, and other molecules benefitting from enantioselective 
production. An often-employed pathway for (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate production in 
recombinant E. coli consists of three-steps: (1) condensation of two acetyl-CoA 
molecules to acetoacetyl-CoA, (2) reduction of acetoacetyl-CoA to 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate-CoA, and (3) hydrolysis of (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate-CoA to 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate by thioesterase. Whereas for the first two steps, many 
proven heterologous candidate genes exist, the role of either endogenous or 
heterologous thioesterases is less defined. This study investigates the 
contribution of four native thioesterases (TesA, TesB, YciA, and FadM) to 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate production by engineered E. coli AF1000 containing a 
thiolase and reductase from Halomonas boliviensis. Deletion of yciA decreased 
the (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate yield by 43%, whereas deletion of tesB and fadM 
resulted in only minor decreases. Overexpression of yciA resulted in doubling of 
(R)-3-hydroxybutyrate titer, productivity, and yield in batch cultures. Together 
with overexpression of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, this resulted in a 
2.7-fold increase in the final (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate concentration in batch 
cultivations and in a final (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate titer of 14.3 g L-1 in 
fed-batch cultures. The positive impact of yciA overexpression in this study, 
which is opposite to previous results where thioesterase was preceded by enzymes 
originating from different hosts or where (S)-3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA was the 
substrate, shows the importance of evaluating thioesterases within a specific 
pathway and in strains and cultivation conditions able to achieve significant 
product titers. While directly relevant for (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate production, 
these findings also contribute to pathway improvement or decreased by-product 
formation for other acyl-CoA-derived products.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-09707-0
PMCID: PMC6469607
PMID: 30834961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. ETHICAL APPROVAL: This article does not 
contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the 
authors.


609. Biotechnol Lett. 2021 Sep;43(9):1757-1764. doi: 10.1007/s10529-021-03100-6. Epub 
2021 May 26.

Efficient production of l-menthyl α-glucopyranoside from l-menthol via 
whole-cell biotransformation using recombinant Escherichia coli.

Chen L(1)(2), Zhou Y(1)(2), Lu C(1)(2), Ma Z(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2), Zhu L(1)(2), 
Lu Y(3)(4), Chen X(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Fermentation Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 18 Chaowang Road, Hangzhou, 310014, China.
(2)College of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of 
Technology, Hangzhou, 310014, China.
(3)Institute of Fermentation Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 18 Chaowang Road, Hangzhou, 310014, China. luyuele@zjut.edu.cn.
(4)College of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of 
Technology, Hangzhou, 310014, China. luyuele@zjut.edu.cn.
(5)Institute of Fermentation Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 18 Chaowang Road, Hangzhou, 310014, China. richard_chen@zjut.edu.cn.
(6)College of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of 
Technology, Hangzhou, 310014, China. richard_chen@zjut.edu.cn.

l-Menthyl α-D-glucopyranoside (α-MenG) is a glycoside derivative of l-menthol 
with improved water-solubility and new flavor property as a food additive. 
α-MenG can be synthesized through biotransformation, but its scale-up production 
was rarely reported. In this study, the properties of an α-glucosidase from 
Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris 8004 (Agl-2) in catalyzing the 
glucosylation of menthol was investigated. Agl-2 can almost completely 
glycosylate l-menthol (> 99%) when using 1.2 M maltose as glycosyl donor. 
Accumulated glucose resulted from maltose hydrolysis and transglycosylation 
caused the inhibition of the glucosylation rate (40% reduction of the 
glucosylation rate in the presence of 1.2 M glucose) which can be avoided 
through whole-cell catalysis with recombinant E. coli. Interestingly, in spite 
of the poor solubility of menthol, the productivity of α-MenG reached 
24.7 g/(L·h) in a 2 L catalyzing system, indicating industrialization of the 
reported approach.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-021-03100-6
PMID: 34037890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Microb Cell Fact. 2017 Nov 9;16(1):192. doi: 10.1186/s12934-017-0804-8.

Bioconversion of distillers' grains hydrolysates to advanced biofuels by an 
Escherichia coli co-culture.

Liu F(1), Wu W(2), Tran-Gyamfi MB(2), Jaryenneh JD(3), Zhuang X(2), Davis RW(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomass Science & Conversion Technologies, Sandia National 
Laboratories, Livermore, CA, 94550, USA. fanliu@sandia.gov.
(2)Department of Biomass Science & Conversion Technologies, Sandia National 
Laboratories, Livermore, CA, 94550, USA.
(3)Department of Systems Biology, Sandia National Laboratories, Livermore, CA, 
94550, USA.
(4)Department of Biomass Science & Conversion Technologies, Sandia National 
Laboratories, Livermore, CA, 94550, USA. rwdavis@sandia.gov.

BACKGROUND: First generation bioethanol production utilizes the starch fraction 
of maize, which accounts for approximately 60% of the ash-free dry weight of the 
grain. Scale-up of this technology for fuels applications has resulted in a 
massive supply of distillers' grains with solubles (DGS) coproduct, which is 
rich in cellulosic polysaccharides and protein. It was surmised that DGS would 
be rapidly adopted for animal feed applications, however, this has not been 
observed based on inconsistency of the product stream and other 
logistics-related risks, especially toxigenic contaminants. Therefore, efficient 
valorization of DGS for production of petroleum displacing products will 
significantly improve the techno-economic feasibility and net energy return of 
the established starch bioethanol process. In this study, we demonstrate 
'one-pot' bioconversion of the protein and carbohydrate fractions of a DGS 
hydrolysate into C4 and C5 fusel alcohols through development of a microbial 
consortium incorporating two engineered Escherichia coli biocatalyst strains.
RESULTS: The carbohydrate conversion strain E. coli BLF2 was constructed from 
the wild type E. coli strain B and showed improved capability to produce fusel 
alcohols from hexose and pentose sugars. Up to 12 g/L fusel alcohols was 
produced from glucose or xylose synthetic medium by E. coli BLF2. The second 
strain, E. coli AY3, was dedicated for utilization of proteins in the 
hydrolysates to produce mixed C4 and C5 alcohols. To maximize conversion yield 
by the co-culture, the inoculation ratio between the two strains was optimized. 
The co-culture with an inoculation ratio of 1:1.5 of E. coli BLF2 and AY3 
achieved the highest total fusel alcohol titer of up to 10.3 g/L from DGS 
hydrolysates. The engineered E. coli co-culture system was shown to be similarly 
applicable for biofuel production from other biomass sources, including algae 
hydrolysates. Furthermore, the co-culture population dynamics revealed by 
quantitative PCR analysis indicated that despite the growth rate difference 
between the two strains, co-culturing didn't compromise the growth of each 
strain. The q-PCR analysis also demonstrated that fermentation with an 
appropriate initial inoculation ratio of the two strains was important to 
achieve a balanced co-culture population which resulted in higher total fuel 
titer.
CONCLUSIONS: The efficient conversion of DGS hydrolysates into fusel alcohols 
will significantly improve the feasibility of the first generation bioethanol 
process. The integrated carbohydrate and protein conversion platform developed 
here is applicable for the bioconversion of a variety of biomass feedstocks rich 
in sugars and proteins.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-017-0804-8
PMCID: PMC5679325
PMID: 29121935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2005 Feb;45(1):132-4.

[Cloning, expression of the CP gene and antiserum preparation of zucchini yellow 
mosaic virus infecting Benincasa hispida Cogn. var. chieh-qua How].

[Article in Chinese]

Song LM(1), Lu CG, Liang WX, Huang JG, Li HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Pathology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100094, 
China. lm-song@sohu.com

A Guangzhou isolate of ZYMV infecting Benincasa hispida Cogn. var. chieh-qua How 
was identified by indicator tests and partial sequence amplification. The coat 
protein (CP) gene of this virus was amplified by RT-PCR, and ligated to the 
expression vector pET-22b(+). The recombinant plasmid pET-ZCP was transformed 
into E. coli BL21 (DE3) and then induced to express by IPTG. It was shown that 
the CP gene was highly expressed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis. The 
molecular weight of the recombinant protein was about 33.0 kD. Antiserum with 
high specificity was produced after the rabbit was immunized with purified 
recombinant protein, and the titer was determined to be 1/4096 by antigen 
coating plate-ELISA (ACP-ELISA).

PMID: 15847180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Aug;25(8):681-3.

[Preparation, identification and preliminary application of the polyclonal 
antibody against gastric cancer-related protein GCRG224].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu YQ(1), Wang MW, Wu BY, Wang GS, You WD, Wang WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, South Building, General Hospital of PLA, 
Beijing 100853, China. wuyq56@hotmail.com

AIM: To prepare the polyclonal antibody against gastric cancer-related protein 
GCRG224.
METHODS: The thioredoxin/GCRG224 fusion protein was expressed in E.coli. The 
polyclonal antibody against GCRG224 was obtained by immunizing a rabbit with the 
purified GCRG224 protein. The titer and specificity of the antibody were 
determined by ELISA and Western blot, respectively. The expression of GCRG224 in 
paraffin-embedded tissue sections from normal gastric mucosal tissues and 
advanced gastric cancer was determined using immunohistochemistry technique.
RESULTS: The thioredoxin/GCRG224 fusion protein with relative molecular mass of 
16.8 kDa was over-expressed in E.coli. The purity of the expressed product 
directly purified from a denaturing polyacrylamide gel was about 100%. The 
polyclonal antibody against GCRG224 was prepared. ELISA detection proved the 
titer of antiserum against GCRG224 was about 1:256,000. Western blot analysis 
showed that the antiserum could bind to the expressed fusion protein 
specifically. GCRG224 was found to have higher expression in gastric cancer 
tissues than in normal ones by immunohistochemistry.
CONCLUSION: The successful preparation of the polyclonal antibody against 
GCRG224 lays a foundation for further study of the biological function and the 
possible role of GCRG224 in the development of gastric carcinoma.

PMID: 19664388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Jun;89(2):169-74. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.03.004. Epub 
2013 Mar 26.

Overproduction of a C5a receptor antagonist (C5aRA) in Escherichia coli.

Jang SH(1), Jeong KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, KAIST, Yuseong-gu, 
Daejeon 305-701, Republic of Korea.

The C5aR antagonist (C5aRA)(1), which blocks the interaction of C5a 
anaphylatoxin and its receptor C5aR, is one of the most potent therapeutic 
agents for the treatment of various autoimmune diseases and acute inflammatory 
conditions. Here we developed an efficient C5aRA production system using 
Escherichia coli. To produce functional C5aRA, which contains three disulfide 
bonds, we used E. coli Origami (DE3), which possessed an oxidative cytoplasm, as 
the production host. To improve solubility and ease in purification, we examined 
the effectiveness of three different fusion partners, including N utilization 
substrate A (NusA), maltose-binding protein (MBP), and thioredoxin A (TrxA), as 
well as three different culture temperatures (i.e., 25, 30, and 37°C). Among the 
three fusion partners, MBP exhibited the highest solubility in the fusion 
protein at all tested temperatures. However, the highest biological activity 
against C5aR was observed with the NusA fusion. For large-scale production, 
batch fermentation was also performed using a NusA-fused C5aRA production system 
by using a lab-scale bioreactor. After a 12-h cultivation, approximately 496mg/L 
of NusA-fused C5aRA could be produced.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.03.004
PMID: 23537791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2010 Jan;85(3):635-42. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-009-2141-2. Epub 2009 Jul 29.

Soluble expression, purification, and characterization of Gloydius shedaoensis 
venom gloshedobin in Escherichia coli by using fusion partners.

Jiang X(1), Xu J, Yang Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience & Biotechnology, Dalian University of Technology, 
No. 2 Linggong Road, Dalian, China.

Gloshedobin, a thrombin-like enzyme from the venom of Gloydius shedaoensis, is 
usually produced as inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli cell. In this work, 
gloshedobin was separately fused with three fusion partners NusA, GST, and TrxA 
at its N terminus and then was expressed as fusion proteins in E. coli. The 
results showed that the NusA was the most efficient fusion partner to improve 
the solubility of recombinant gloshedobin. The purified NusA-fused gloshedobin 
with an overall yield of 64.6% was resolved as one band in the SDS-PAGE gel with 
molecular mass of about 90 kDa. Both fibrinogen clotting and fibrinogenolytic 
activities were found for the recombinant product. The purified NusA-fused 
gloshedobin exhibited amidolytic activity of 506 U/mg under optimal conditions 
of pH of 8.0 and 40 degrees C. The inhibition study of NusA-fused gloshedobin by 
various inhibitors showed that serine protease inhibitors, phenylmethylsulphonyl 
fluoride, and N-tosyl-L: -phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone, strongly inhibited 
its admidolytic activity, whereas ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid as well as 
heparin and hirudin did not, suggesting that NusA-fused gloshedobin exhibited 
the same characteristics as the native form of gloshedobin. The strategy of this 
work may contribute to improve the soluble expression level of other 
thrombin-like enzymes from snake venom in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-009-2141-2
PMID: 19639313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Aug;148:16-23. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.03.005. Epub 
2018 Mar 17.

Enhanced production of soluble tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing 
ligand in Escherichia coli using a novel self-cleavable tag system Fh8-ΔI-CM.

Zhang M(1), Wang Z(1), Chi L(2), Sun J(3), Shen Y(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, Shanghai Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Biomanufacturing Technology, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterolog, Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, Shanghai Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Biomanufacturing Technology, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai, People's Republic of China; Shanghai Gebaide 
Biotechnical Co., Ltd., Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, Shanghai Collaborative 
Innovation Center for Biomanufacturing Technology, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. Electronic 
address: ylshen@ecust.edu.cn.

Escherichia coli is an essential host for large-scale expression of heterologous 
polypeptides. However, further applications are limited by the formation of 
potential protein aggregates. In this work, we developed a novel on-column tag 
removal and purification system based on Fh8 hydrophobic interaction 
chromatography purification and ΔI-CM self-cleavage to obtain soluble tumor 
necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL). We evaluated several 
methods to improve TRAIL solubility and finally demonstrated that the Fh8 tag 
was a powerful solubility enhancer. Finally, we replaced the tobacco etch virus 
(TEV) protease site with a ΔI-CM self-cleavage intein to simplify the 
purification process. The released soluble TRAIL purity and yield reached 98.4% 
and 82.1 mg/L in shake flasks, respectively. Thus, the Fh8-ΔI-CM system enhanced 
target protein solubility by Fh8, enabled on-column tag removal and purification 
based on Fh8 calcium-binding properties and ΔI-CM self-cleavage properties, and 
promoted the release of highly active protein with high yield and purity. 
Overall, our findings suggest that this Fh8-ΔI-CM system could be used as a 
novel solubility-inducing and purification fusion tag for protein production in 
E. coli.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.03.005
PMID: 29555311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 May;145:45-52. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.12.012. Epub 
2018 Jan 2.

High yield production of fungal manganese peroxidases by E. coli through soluble 
expression, and examination of the activities.

Lin MI(1), Nagata T(2), Katahira M(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Advanced Energy, Kyoto University, Japan; Graduate School of 
Energy Science, Kyoto University, Japan.
(2)Institute of Advanced Energy, Kyoto University, Japan; Graduate School of 
Energy Science, Kyoto University, Japan. Electronic address: 
nagata.takashi.6w@kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(3)Institute of Advanced Energy, Kyoto University, Japan; Graduate School of 
Energy Science, Kyoto University, Japan. Electronic address: 
katahira@iae.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Oxidative enzymes of white-rot fungi play a key role in lignin biodegradation. 
Among those fungus, Ceriporiopsis subvermispora degrades lignin before cellulose 
in wood; C. subvermispora is the only fungus that secretes all known types of 
manganese peroxidases (CsMnPs). Utilization of lignin-degrading peroxidases has 
been limited so far due to the lack of efficient preparation methods and 
intensive characterization. In this study, we developed a highly efficient 
method to prepare active CsMnPs through soluble expression by E. coli, which had 
long been impossible. The genes of MnPs selected from each subfamily were 
codon-optimized and expressed under the control of a cold shock promoter. A 
proper level of heme incorporation was achieved by continuous addition of hemin 
during cultivation. As much as 3 mg of purified MnPs was obtained from 100 mL 
culture, which is an about 20-fold higher yield than that from inclusion bodies 
through refolding. Further improvement of the solubility on the expression was 
achieved by combinatorial coexpression of chaperones. All obtained MnPs had 
heme-to-protein ratios as high as those of native MnPs. They were all active 
below pH 5. Our method is applicable to other fungal-secreted enzymes should 
help the progress of their basic characterization and application for better 
utilization of woody biomass.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.12.012
PMID: 29305178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2009 Jan 1;102(1):20-8. doi: 10.1002/bit.22028.

Rational improvement of simvastatin synthase solubility in Escherichia coli 
leads to higher whole-cell biocatalytic activity.

Xie X(1), Pashkov I, Gao X, Guerrero JL, Yeates TO, Tang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of 
California, 5531 Boelter Hall, 420 Westwood Plaza, UCLA, Los Angeles, California 
90095, USA.

Simvastatin is the active pharmaceutical ingredient of the blockbuster 
cholesterol lowering drug Zocor. We have previously developed an Escherichia 
coli based whole-cell biocatalytic platform towards the synthesis of simvastatin 
sodium salt (SS) starting from the precursor monacolin J sodium salt (MJSS). The 
centerpiece of the biocatalytic approach is the simvastatin synthase LovD, which 
is highly prone to misfolding and aggregation when overexpressed from E. coli. 
Increasing the solubility of LovD without decreasing its catalytic activity can 
therefore elevate the performance of the whole-cell biocatalyst. Using a 
combination of homology structural prediction and site-directed mutagenesis, we 
identified two cysteine residues in LovD that are responsible for nonspecific 
intermolecular crosslinking, which leads to oligomer formation and protein 
aggregation. Replacement of Cys40 and Cys60 with alanine residues resulted in 
marked gain in both protein solubility and whole-cell biocatalytic activities. 
Further mutagenesis experiments converting these two residues to small or polar 
natural amino acids showed that C40A and C60N are the most beneficial, affording 
27% and 26% increase in whole cell activities, respectively. The double mutant 
C40A/C60N combines the individual improvements and displayed approximately 50% 
increase in protein solubility and whole-cell activity. Optimized fed-batch 
high-cell-density fermentation of the double mutant in an E. coli strain 
engineered for simvastatin production quantitatively (>99%) converted 45 mM MJSS 
to SS within 18 h, which represents a significant improvement over the 
performance of wild-type LovD under identical conditions. The high efficiency of 
the improved whole-cell platform renders the biocatalytic synthesis of SS an 
attractive substitute over the existing semisynthetic routes.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.22028
PMCID: PMC3928684
PMID: 18988191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1586:33-43. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6887-9_3.

Harnessing the Profinity eXact™ System for Expression and Purification of 
Heterologous Proteins in E. coli.

Peleg Y(1), Prabahar V(2), Bednarczyk D(3), Unger T(4).

Author information:
(1)The Israel Structural Proteomics Center (ISPC), Weizmann Institute of 
Science, 234 Herzl Street, Rehovot, Israel.
(2)Migal-Galilee Research Institute, S. Industrial Zone, Kiryat Shmona, Israel.
(3)Department of Bimolecular Sciences, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
7610001, Israel.
(4)The Israel Structural Proteomics Center (ISPC), Weizmann Institute of 
Science, 234 Herzl Street, Rehovot, Israel. tamar.unger@weizmann.ac.il.

Highly purified recombinant proteins in large quantities are valuable material 
for biochemical and structural studies. To achieve this goal, versatile tools 
were developed to increase the expression of the recombinant proteins and to 
facilitate the purification process. Fusion tags are commonly used for enhancing 
expression and solubility and some can be used in the purification process. 
However, these tags may need to be removed by treatment with specific proteases 
in order to obtain the tag-free protein. The Profinity eXact™ system provides an 
alternative system for a fusion tag, enhancing expression and purification in 
one-step. Here we describe a set of new vectors in which the Profinity eXact™ 
tag, in addition to a 6× His-tag, with or without additional 
expression-enhancing sequences, could be used in the Profinity eXact™ system. We 
show that the solubility enhancing tags (Trx, GST, GB1) increase the yield of 
the purified tested protein compared to the vector containing only a His-tag 
upstream of the Profinity eXact™ fusion tag.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6887-9_3
PMID: 28470597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Apr;30(4):407-10.

[Preparation and identification of the polyclonal antibody against GAPDH protein 
from Shigella flexneri M90T].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Y(1), Liao X(2), Yue J(2), Zhou W(2), Liang L(2), Huhe B(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, 
Hohhot 010018; Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100071, China.
(2)Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100071, China.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, 
Hohhot 010018, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare mouse polyclonal antibodies against Shigella flexneri M90T 
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and verify its titer and 
specificity.
METHODS: The gapA gene of Shigella flexneri M90T was amplified by PCR from 
extracted genomic DNA and inserted into expression vector pET24a. The plasmid 
pET24a-gapA was transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3) and induced to express the 
tagged protein GAPDH-His. After condition optimization, the protein was purified 
with Ni Sepharose(TM); 6 Fast Flow. The polyclonal antibodies were prepared by 
immunizing the mice with the purified recombinant protein and then harvesting 
mouse sera. The specificity and efficiency of antibodies in sera were analyzed 
by Western blotting and ELISA against whole cell proteins of Shigella flexneri 
M90T.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid pET24a-gapA was successfully constructed. The 
soluble expression of the tagged protein GAPDH-His was achieved with 2-hour 
induction of 1 mmol/L IPTG at 30°C. Western blotting and ELISA demonstrated that 
the polyclonal antibody harvested from the mice immunized with GAPDH-His was 
specific and efficient against Shigella flexneri M90T GAPDH. Conclusion The 
mouse polyclonal antibodies against the Shigella flexneri M90T GAPDH protein 
were successfully prepared.

PMID: 24721410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Jun;83(2):169-76. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.03.016. Epub 
2012 Apr 7.

Enhanced soluble expression of recombinant Flavobacterium heparinum heparinase I 
in Escherichia coli by fusing it with various soluble partners.

Huang J(1), Cao L, Guo W, Yuan R, Jia Z, Huang K.

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 
210095, PR China.

Heparinase I (HepA) was originally isolated from Flavobacterium heparinum (F. 
heparinum) and specifically cleaves heparin/heparan sulfate in a site-dependent 
manner, showing great promise for producing low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). 
However, expressing recombinant HepA is extremely difficult in Escherichia coli 
because it suffers from low yields, insufficient purity and insolubility. In 
this paper, we systematically cloned and fused the HepA gene to the C-terminus 
of five soluble partners, including translation initiation factor 2 domain I 
(IF2), glutathione S-transferase (GST), maltose-binding protein (MBP), small 
ubiquitin modifying protein (SUMO) and N-utilization substance A (NusA), to 
screen for their abilities to improve the solubility of recombinant HepA when 
expressed in E. coli. A convenient two-step immobilized metal affinity 
chromatography (IMAC) method was utilized to purify these fused HepA hybrids. We 
show that, except for NusA, the fusion partners dramatically improved the 
soluble expression of recombinant HepA, with IF2-HepA and SUMO-HepA creating 
almost completely soluble HepA (98% and 94% of expressed HepA fusions are 
soluble, respectively), which is the highest yield rate published to the best of 
our knowledge. Moreover, all of the fusion proteins show comparable biological 
activity to their unfused counterparts and could be used directly without 
removing the fusion tags. Together, our results provide a viable option to 
produce large amounts of soluble and active recombinant HepA for manufacturing.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.03.016
PMID: 22503820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2012 Oct 11;5(1):76. doi: 10.1186/1754-6834-5-76.

Boosting the free fatty acid synthesis of Escherichia coli by expression of a 
cytosolic Acinetobacter baylyi thioesterase.

Zheng Y(1), Li L, Liu Q, Qin W, Yang J, Cao Y, Jiang X, Zhao G, Xian M.

Author information:
(1)Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Qingdao, 266101, China. xianmo@qibebt.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Thioesterases remove the fatty acyl moiety from the fatty acyl-acyl 
carrier proteins (ACPs), releasing them as free fatty acids (FFAs), which can be 
further used to produce a variety of fatty acid-based biofuels, such as 
biodiesel, fatty alcohols and alkanes. Thioesterases play a key role in the 
regulation of the fatty acid synthesis in Escherichia coli. Therefore, exploring 
more promising thioesterases will contribute to the development of industrial 
microbial lipids production.
RESULTS: We cloned and expressed a cytosolic Acinetobacter baylyi thioesterase 
('AcTesA) in E. coli by deleting its leader sequence. Protein sequence 
alignment, structure modeling and site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that 
Ser10, Gly48, Asn77, Asp158 and His161 residues composed the active centre of 
'AcTesA. The engineered strain that overexpressed 'AcTesA achieved a FFAs titer 
of up to 501.2 mg/L in shake flask, in contrast to only 20.5 mg/L obtained in 
wild-type E. coli, demonstrating that the expression of 'AcTesA indeed boosted 
the synthesis of FFAs. The 'AcTesA exhibited a substrate preference towards the 
C8-C16 acyl groups, with C14:0, C16:1, C12:0 and C8:0 FFAs being the top four 
components. Optimization of expression level of 'AcTesA made the FFAs production 
increase to 551.3 mg/L. The FFAs production further increased to 716.1 mg/L by 
optimization of the culture medium. Fed-batch fermentation was also carried out 
to evaluate the FFAs production in a scaleable process. Finally, 3.6 g/L FFAs 
were accumulated within 48 h, and a maximal FFAs yield of 6.1% was achieved in 
12-16 h post induction.
CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, an A. baylyi thioesterase was cloned and 
solubly expressed in the cytosol of E. coli. This leaderless thioesterase 
('AcTesA) was found to be capable of enhancing the FFAs production of E. coli. 
Without detailed optimization of the strain and fermentation, the finally 
achieved 3.6 g/L FFAs is encouraging. In addition, 'AcTesA exhibited different 
substrate specificity from other thioesterases previously reported, and can be 
used to supply the fatty acid-based biofuels with high quality of FFAs. 
Altogether, this study provides a promising thioesterase for FFAs production, 
and is of great importance in enriching the library of useful thioesterases.

DOI: 10.1186/1754-6834-5-76
PMCID: PMC3524773
PMID: 23057831


622. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Jan;98(2):591-601. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-013-5309-8. Epub 2013 Oct 25.

Enhanced production of the nonribosomal peptide antibiotic valinomycin in 
Escherichia coli through small-scale high cell density fed-batch cultivation.

Li J(1), Jaitzig J, Hillig F, Süssmuth R, Neubauer P.

Author information:
(1)Chair of Bioprocess Engineering, Department of Biotechnology, Technische 
Universität Berlin, Ackerstraße 71-76, ACK24, 13355, Berlin, Germany.

Nonribosomal peptides (NRPs), a large family of natural products, possess 
numerous pharmaceutically significant bioactivities. However, many native 
microbial producers of NRPs are not cultivable or have low production yields 
making mass production infeasible. The recombinant production of natural 
products in a surrogate host has emerged as a strategy to overcome these 
limitations. De novo recombinant production of the NRP antibiotic valinomycin in 
an engineered Escherichia coli host strain was established with the necessary 
biosynthetic pathway constituents from Streptomyces tsusimaensis. In the present 
study, the initially modest valinomycin yields could be significantly increased 
from 0.3 up to 2.4 mg L⁻¹ by switching from a batch to an enzyme-based fed-batch 
mode in shake flasks. A subsequent design of experiment-driven optimization of 
parallel fed-batch cultivations in 24-well plates with online monitoring of 
dissolved oxygen and pH led to valinomycin yields up to 6.4 mg L⁻¹. Finally, 
repeated glucose polymer feeding to enzyme-based high cell density cultivations 
in shake flasks resulted in cell densities of OD₆₀₀>50 and a valinomycin titer 
of appr. 10 mg L⁻¹. This represents a 33-fold improvement compared to the 
initial batch cultivations and is the highest concentration of a nonribosomal 
peptide which has been produced in E. coli without feeding of specific 
precursors so far to our knowledge. Also, such a small-scale optimization under 
fed-batch conditions may be generally applicable for the development and 
scale-up of natural product production processes in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-013-5309-8
PMID: 24419900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2021 Nov 28;31(11):1583-1590. doi: 
10.4014/jmb.2106.06006.

Codon Optimization, Soluble Expression and Purification of PE_PGRS45 Gene from 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Preparation of Its Polyclonal Antibody Protein.

Xu T(1)(2), Li M(2), Wang C(2), Yuan M(2), Chang X(3), Qian Z(2), Li B(2), Sun 
M(2)(4), Wang H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, School of Laboratory Medicine, Bengbu 
Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui 233000, P.R. China.
(2)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Immunology in Chronic Diseases, Anhui Key 
Laboratory of Infection and Immunity, School of Laboratory Medicine, Bengbu 
Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui 233000, P.R. China.
(3)The Infectious Disease Hospital of Bengbu City, Bengbu, Anhui 233000, P.R. 
China.
(4)Department of Histology and Embryology, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui 
233000, P.R. China.

Studies have demonstrated that PE_PGRS45 is constitutively expressed under 
various environmental conditions (such as nutrient depletion, hypoxia, and low 
pH) of the in vitro growth conditions examined, indicating that PE_PGRS45 
protein is critical to the basic functions of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 
However, there are few reports about the biochemical function and pathogenic 
mechanism of PE_PGRS45 protein. The fact that this M. tuberculosis gene is not 
easily expressed in E. coli may be mainly due to the high content of G+C and the 
use of unique codons. Fusion tags are indispensable tools used to improve the 
soluble expression of recombinant proteins and accelerate the characterization 
of protein structure and function. In the present study, His6, Trx, and His6-MBP 
were used as fusion tags, but only MBP-PE_PGRS45 was expressed solubly. The 
purification using His6-MBP tag-specific binding to the Ni column was easy to 
separate after the tag cleavage. We used the purified PE_PGRS45 to immunize New 
Zealand rabbits and obtained anti- PE_PGRS45 serum. We found that the titer of 
polyclonal antibodies against PE_PGR45 was higher than 1:256000. The result 
shows that purified PE_PGRS45 can induce New Zealand rabbits to produce 
high-titer antibodies. In conclusion, the recombinant protein PE_PGRS45 was 
successfully expressed in E. coli and specific antiserum was prepared, which 
will be followed by further evaluation of these specific antigens to develop 
highly sensitive and specific diagnostic tests for tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.2106.06006
PMID: 34489370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. PLoS One. 2016 Oct 7;11(10):e0163697. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0163697. 
eCollection 2016.

Enhanced Mitogenic Activity of Recombinant Human Vascular Endothelial Growth 
Factor VEGF121 Expressed in E. coli Origami B (DE3) with Molecular Chaperones.

Kaplan O(1)(2), Zárubová J(2), Mikulová B(2)(3), Filová E(2), Bártová J(4), 
Bačáková L(2), Brynda E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Czech Academy of Sciences, CZ-162 06, 
Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, CZ-142 20, Prague, Czech 
Republic.
(3)Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, CZ-128 40, Prague, Czech 
Republic.
(4)School of Dental Medicine, General University Hospital in Prague, CZ-128 08, 
Prague, Czech Republic.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2017 Jan 3;12 (1):e0169590.

We describe the production of a highly-active mutant VEGF variant, 
α2-PI1-8-VEGF121, which contains a substrate sequence for factor XIIIa at the 
aminoterminus designed for incorporation into a fibrin gel. The α2-PI1-8-VEGF121 
gene was synthesized, cloned into a pET-32a(+) vector and expressed in 
Escherichia coli Origami B (DE3) host cells. To increase the protein folding and 
the solubility, the resulting thioredoxin-α2-PI1-8-VEGF121 fusion protein was 
co-expressed with recombinant molecular chaperones GroES/EL encoded by 
independent plasmid pGro7. The fusion protein was purified from the soluble 
fraction of cytoplasmic proteins using affinity chromatography. After cleavage 
of the thioredoxin fusion part with thrombin, the target protein was purified by 
a second round of affinity chromatography. The yield of purified 
α2-PI1-8-VEGF121 was 1.4 mg per liter of the cell culture. The α2-PI1-8-VEGF121 
expressed in this work increased the proliferation of endothelial cells 3.9-8.7 
times in comparison with commercially-available recombinant VEGF121. This very 
high mitogenic activity may be caused by co-expression of the growth factor with 
molecular chaperones not previously used in VEGF production. At the same time, 
α2-PI1-8-VEGF121 did not elicit considerable inflammatory activation of human 
endothelial HUVEC cells and human monocyte-like THP-1 cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0163697
PMCID: PMC5055331
PMID: 27716773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


625. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Mar;47(3):311-318. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-020-02268-6. Epub 2020 Mar 5.

Enhancing glutaric acid production in Escherichia coli by uptake of malonic 
acid.

Sui X(1)(2), Zhao M(1)(2), Liu Y(3)(4), Wang J(3)(4), Li G(5)(6), Zhang X(7)(8), 
Deng Y(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology (NELCF), 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Jiangsu Provincial Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing 
Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(3)China-Canada Joint Lab of Food Nutrition and Health (Beijing), Beijing 
Technology and Business University, Beijing, 100048, China.
(4)The Open Project Program of China-Canada Joint Lab of Food Nutrition and 
Health, Beijing Technology and Business University (BTBU), Beijing 100048, 
China.
(5)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology (NELCF), 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China. 
guohuili@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(6)Jiangsu Provincial Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing 
Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China. 
guohuili@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(7)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology (NELCF), 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China. 
xzhang6@163.com.
(8)Jiangsu Provincial Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing 
Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China. xzhang6@163.com.
(9)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology (NELCF), 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China. 
dengyu@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(10)Jiangsu Provincial Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing 
Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China. 
dengyu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Glutaric acid is an important organic acid applied widely in different fields. 
Most previous researches have focused on the production of glutaric acid in 
various strains using the 5-aminovaleric acid (AMV) or pentenoic acid synthesis 
pathways. We previously utilized a five-step reversed adipic acid degradation 
pathway (RADP) in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) to construct strain Bgl146. 
Herein, we found that malonyl-CoA was strictly limited in this strain, and 
increasing its abundance could improve glutaric acid production. We, therefore, 
constructed a malonic acid uptake pathway in E. coli using matB (malonic acid 
synthetase) and matC (malonic acid carrier protein) from Clover rhizobia. The 
titer of glutaric acid was improved by 2.1-fold and 1.45-fold, respectively, 
reaching 0.56 g/L and 4.35 g/L in shake flask and batch fermentation following 
addition of malonic acid. Finally, the highest titer of glutaric acid was 
6.3 g/L in fed-batch fermentation at optimized fermentation conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-020-02268-6
PMID: 32140931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2007 Mar;23(2):206-10. doi: 
10.1016/s1872-2075(07)60016-8.

[Improved the solubility of maize uroporphyrinogen III methyltransferase as the 
red fluorescent indicator by site-directed mutagenesis].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan HY(1), Cheng Y, Zhu SW, Fan J.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei , 230036, 
China.

S-adenosylmethionine-dependent uroporphyrinogen III methyltransferase (SUMT) is 
a novel red fluorescence indicator. However, the production of SUMT in 
Escherichia coli is restricted by its relatively low solubility, and little is 
known about the red fluorescent materials that are associate with SUMT. Two 
individual SUMT mutations, L166A and L88R/L89G double mutant were produced by 
site-directed mutagenesis. Both mutants were overexpressed in E. coli and 
purified by Ni-NTA chromatography. The reddish mixtures isolated from the 
purified L88R/L89G double mutant were analyzed by UV-visible spectra scanning 
and mass analysis(MS). The L88R/L89G double mutant has enzymatic activity in 
vivo, whereas L166A mutant loses the activity. Trimethylpyrrocorphin is 
identified as the main constituent in the isolated pigments. The purified 
L88R/L89G mutant increases protein solubility, which is applied potentially as 
the fluorescent indicator denoting the solubility of protein fusion partner.

DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2075(07)60016-8
PMID: 17460889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Apr;23(4):363-6.

[Prokaryotic expression and purification of RPS13 and preparation of polyclonal 
antibody against RPS13].

[Article in Chinese]

Guo XY(1), Shi YQ, Zhai HH, Sun L, Liu LL, Han S, Lei T, Fan DM.

Author information:
(1)National Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology, Institute of Digestive Diseases, 
Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.

AIM: To construct prokaryotic expression plasmid of RPS13, express and purify 
the protein for the preparation of polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: RPS13 gene was amplified by reverse transcription polymerase chain 
reaction (RT-PCR) from the highly expressed cell of gastric multidrug cell 
SGC7901/VCR. After sequenced, the gene was cloned into the expression vector 
pET-28a(+) to construct RPS13 expression plasmid pET-28a(+)-RPS13. The 
expression plasmid was transformed into the E.coli BL21 and screened by 
ampiline, and then the E.coli BL21 containing the expression plasmid was induced 
by IPTG and the protein was purifed by Histag column. BALB/c mice were immunized 
by the immunogen His-RPS13. The titer was measured by ELISA and the polyclonal 
antibody was obtained.
RESULTS: The expression plasmid pET-28a(+)-RPS13 was constructed. The 19 kDa 
recombined protein was successfully expressed in the E.coli BL21 by IPTG for 3 
hours, purified by Histag column and confirmed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot. The 
polyclonal anti-His-RPS13 antibody was obtained by immunizing the mice with 
RPS13 protein. RPS13 could be specifically recognized by the antibody based on 
Western blot.
CONCLUSION: RPS13 has bene expressed and purified successfully and polyclonal 
anti-His-RPS13 antibody has been prepared. Our study can be used for the 
preparation of monoclonal anti-His-RPS13 antibody and for further research of 
the function of the RPS13 protein in tumor.

PMID: 17428396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. PLoS One. 2015 May 12;10(5):e0127039. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127039. 
eCollection 2015.

Optimization of translation profiles enhances protein expression and solubility.

Hess AK(1), Saffert P(1), Liebeton K(2), Ignatova Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biology, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, 
Germany.
(2)BRAIN, Zwingenberg, Germany.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry and Biology, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, 
Germany; Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of 
Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.

mRNA is translated with a non-uniform speed that actively coordinates 
co-translational folding of protein domains. Using structure-based homology we 
identified the structural domains in epoxide hydrolases (EHs) and introduced 
slow-translating codons to delineate the translation of single domains. These 
changes in translation speed dramatically improved the solubility of two EHs of 
metagenomic origin in Escherichia coli. Conversely, the importance of transient 
attenuation for the folding, and consequently solubility, of EH was evidenced 
with a member of the EH family from Agrobacterium radiobacter, which partitions 
in the soluble fraction when expressed in E. coli. Synonymous substitutions of 
codons shaping the slow-transiting regions to fast-translating codons render 
this protein insoluble. Furthermore, we show that low protein yield can be 
enhanced by decreasing the free folding energy of the initial 5'-coding region, 
which can disrupt mRNA secondary structure and enhance ribosomal loading. This 
study provides direct experimental evidence that mRNA is not a mere messenger 
for translation of codons into amino acids but bears an additional layer of 
information for folding, solubility and expression level of the encoded protein. 
Furthermore, it provides a general frame on how to modulate and fine-tune gene 
expression of a target protein.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0127039
PMCID: PMC4428881
PMID: 25965266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


629. Protein Pept Lett. 2016;23(10):878-883. doi: 10.2174/0929866523666160831161548.

Characterization and Expression Analysis of Receptor for Activated C Kinase from 
Silk-producing Insect Antheraea pernyi.

Zhu BJ, Yu H, Tian S, Dai LS, Sun Y, Liu CL(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Anhui Agricultural University, 130 Changjiang West 
Road, Hefei 230036, China. cyschx@163.com.

The receptor for activated C kinase (RACK) is an important scaffold protein with 
regulatory functions in cells. However, its role in the immune response of 
Antheraea pernyi to pathogen challenge remains unclear. To investigate the 
biological functions of RACK in the wild silkworm A. pernyi, cloning was 
performed and the expression patterns of the RACK gene were analyzed. Sequence 
analysis revealed that the RACK gene was 1120 bp containing a 960-bp open 
reading frame. The deduced RACK protein sequence reveals the higher identity 
with its homologs from other insects. SDS-PAGE and western blot analysis 
demonstrated successful expression of a 36-kDa recombinant RACK protein in 
Escherichia coli. The titer of a rabbit-raised antibody against recombinant RACK 
protein was about 1: 20000, determined by ELISA. Real-time PCR analysis showed 
that RACK expression was higher in fat bodies than in other examined A. pernyi 
tissues. The expression of RACK mRNA in fat bodies of fifth larvae of A. pernyi 
was obviously induced after nucleopolyhedrovirus, E. coli or Beauveria bassiana 
challenge. However, the expression patterns of RACK were different in response 
to these pathogens. Our data suggest that RACK may play a role in the innate 
immune responses of A. pernyi.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866523666160831161548
PMID: 27586183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Huazhong Univ Sci Technolog Med Sci. 2006;26(3):265-8. doi: 
10.1007/BF02829546.

Expression of recombinant baculovirus carrying Schistosoma japonicum 26 ku GST 
in mammalian cells.

Yu G(1), Song J, Liu W, Long X, Mo H, Li Y, Chen X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

In order to construct recombinant baculovirus carrying Schistosoma japonicum 26 
ku glutathione S-transferase gene (Sj26), and observe the expression of Sj26 in 
mammalian cells, the Sj26 gene was amplified with plasmid pGEX-3X as template by 
PCR, and then recombined into T vector for sequencing. Sj26 gene was inserted 
into the downstream of CMV promoter of donor plasmid pFBDGC, and the recombinant 
donor plasmid pFBDGC-Sj26 transformed into DH10Bac, then the recombinant bacmid 
AcCMVSj26 was isolated and transfected into Sf9 cells. The recombinant 
baculovirus was harvested and final titer of vAcCMVSj26 was measured. BHK cells 
were transducted with recombinant baculovirus in vitro. By using Western blot, 
the expression of 26 ku glutathione S-transferase (GST) was detected. The 
results showed that after enzyme digestion and sequencing, the donor plasmid was 
successfully constructed. PCR confirmed that pFBDGC-Sj26 and Bacmid homologous 
recombination occurred in E. coli. After transfection of Sf9 cells with 
recombinant Bacmid, recombinant baculovirus was replicated in Sf9 cells and 
expressed green fluorescent protein. PCR further revealed recombinant 
baculovirus contained Sj26. The titer of the harvested baculovirus was 1.24 x 
10(8). Western blot demonstrated that recombinant baculovirus could express 26 
ku GST in BHK cells. It was concluded that Sj26 recombinant baculovirus was 
successfully constructed, and the 26 ku GST was expressed in mammalian cells.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02829546
PMID: 16961264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2406:1-31. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_1.

Recombinant Protein Production and Purification of Insoluble Proteins.

Ferrer-Miralles N(1)(2)(3), Saccardo P(1)(2)(3), Corchero JL(1)(2)(3), 
Garcia-Fruitós E(4).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain.
(2)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain.
(3)CIBER de Bioingeniería, Biomateriales y Nanomedicina (CIBER-BBN), Cerdanyola 
del Vallès, Spain.
(4)Department of Ruminant Production, Institut de Recerca i Tecnologia 
Agroalimentàries (IRTA), Caldes de Montbui, Spain. elena.garcia@irta.cat.

Proteins are synthesized in heterologous systems because of the impossibility to 
obtain satisfactory yields from natural sources. The efficient production of 
soluble and functional recombinant proteins is among the main goals in the 
biotechnological field. In this context, it is important to point out that under 
stress conditions, protein folding machinery is saturated and this promotes 
protein misfolding and, consequently, protein aggregation. Thus, the selection 
of the optimal expression organism and its growth conditions to minimize the 
formation of insoluble protein aggregates should be done according to the 
protein characteristics and downstream requirements. Escherichia coli is the 
most popular recombinant protein expression system despite the great development 
achieved so far by eukaryotic expression systems. Besides, other prokaryotic 
expression systems, such as lactic acid bacteria and psychrophilic bacteria, are 
gaining interest in this field. However, it is worth mentioning that prokaryotic 
expression system poses, in many cases, severe restrictions for a successful 
heterologous protein production. Thus, eukaryotic systems such as mammalian 
cells, insect cells, yeast, filamentous fungus, and microalgae are an 
interesting alternative for the production of these difficult-to-express 
proteins.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1859-2_1
PMID: 35089548


632. BMC Biotechnol. 2015 Feb 19;15(1):7. doi: 10.1186/s12896-015-0126-z.

Preparation of cell-permeable Cre recombinase by expressed protein ligation.

Lyu SK(1), Kwon H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology and Protein Research Center for 
Bio-Industry, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin, 449-791, Republic of 
Korea. helhela@naver.com.
(2)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology and Protein Research Center for 
Bio-Industry, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin, 449-791, Republic of 
Korea. hmkwon@hufs.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Protein transduction is safer than viral vector-mediated 
transduction for the delivery of a therapeutic protein into a cell. Fusion 
proteins with an arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptide have been produced in E. 
coli, but the low solubility of the fusion protein expressed in E. coli impedes 
the large-scale production of fusion proteins from E. coli.
RESULTS: Expressed protein ligation is a semisynthetic method to ligate a 
bacterially expressed protein with a chemically synthesized peptide. In this 
study, we developed expressed protein ligation-based techniques to conjugate 
synthetic polyarginine peptides to Cre recombinase. The conjugation efficiency 
of this technique was higher than 80%. Using this method, we prepared 
semisynthetic Cre with poly-L-arginine (ssCre-R9), poly-D-arginine (ssCre-dR9) 
and biotin (ssCre-dR9-biotin). We found that ssCre-R9 was delivered to the cell 
to a comparable level or more efficiently compared with Cre-R11 and TAT-Cre 
expressed as recombinant fusion proteins in E. coli. We also found that the 
poly-D-arginine cell-penetrating peptide was more effective than the 
poly-L-arginine cell-penetrating peptide for the delivery of Cre into cell. We 
visualized the cell transduced with ssCre-dR9-biotin using avidin-FITC.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, the results demonstrate that expressed protein 
ligation is an excellent technique for the production of cell-permeable Cre 
recombinase with polyarginine cell-penetrating peptides. In addition, this 
approach will extend the use of cell-permeable proteins to more sophisticated 
applications, such as cell imaging.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-015-0126-z
PMCID: PMC4339299
PMID: 25888446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Protein Sci. 2018 May;27(5):969-975. doi: 10.1002/pro.3404. Epub 2018 Mar 25.

Fused dimerization increases expression, solubility, and activity of bacterial 
dehydratase enzymes.

Rullán-Lind C(1)(2), Pietri RB(3), Vázquez-Cintrón M(1)(2), Baerga-Ortiz 
A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Puerto Rico, Medical Sciences 
Campus, San Juan, 00936-5067, Puerto Rico.
(2)Molecular Sciences Research Center, University of Puerto Rico, San Juan, 
Puerto Rico.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Puerto Rico, Cayey Campus, Cayey, 
Puerto Rico.

FabA and FabZ are the two dehydratase enzymes in Escherichia coli that catalyze 
the dehydration of acyl intermediates in the biosynthesis of fatty acids. Both 
enzymes form obligate dimers in which the active site contains key amino acids 
from both subunits. While FabA is a soluble protein that has been relatively 
straightforward to express and to purify from cultured E. coli, FabZ has shown 
to be mostly insoluble and only partially active. In an effort to increase the 
solubility and activity of both dehydratases, we made constructs consisting of 
two identical subunits of FabA or FabZ fused with a naturally occurring peptide 
linker, so as to force their dimerization. The fused dimer of FabZ (FabZ-FabZ) 
was expressed as a soluble enzyme with an ninefold higher activity in vitro than 
the unfused FabZ. This construct exemplifies a strategy for the improvement of 
enzymes from the fatty acid biosynthesis pathways, many of which function as 
dimers, catalyzing critical steps for the production of fatty acids.

© 2018 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.3404
PMCID: PMC5916124
PMID: 29520922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Biol Chem. 2004 Feb;385(2):137-43. doi: 10.1515/BC.2004.032.

The periplasmic E. coli chaperone Skp is a trimer in solution: biophysical and 
preliminary crystallographic characterization.

Schlapschy M(1), Dommel MK, Hadian K, Fogarasi M, Korndörfer IP, Skerra A.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Biologische Chemie, Technische Universität München, D-85350 
Freising-Weihenstephan, Germany.

The 'seventeen kilodalton protein' Skp confers transient solubility on outer 
membrane proteins during biogenesis in Gram-negative bacteria. Here we report a 
first biophysical characterization of this chaperone itself, which also 
possesses biotechnological potential in the production of recombinant proteins. 
Using cross-linking and gel filtration methods, we found that Skp forms a stable 
homo-trimer in solution. Following thermal denaturation, monitored by CD 
spectroscopy, this chaperone refolds with high efficiency but exhibits a 
pronounced hysteresis between the un- and refolding transitions. Using the 
recombinant protein equipped with the Strep-tag II at its N-terminus, suitable 
crystallization conditions for Skp were found. A first data set was collected to 
2.60 A resolution.

DOI: 10.1515/BC.2004.032
PMID: 15101556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Feb;25(2):247-54. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1406.06013.

Effects of co-expression of liver X receptor β-ligand binding domain with its 
partner, retinoid X receptor α-ligand binding domain, on their solubility and 
biological activity in Escherichia coli.

Kang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, College of Health Science, Dankook 
University, Cheonan-si 330-714, Republic of Korea.

In this presentation, I describe the expression and purification of the 
recombinant liver X receptor β-ligand binding domain proteins in E. coli using a 
commercially available double cistronic vector, pACYCDuet-1, to express the 
receptor heterodimer in a single cell as the soluble form. I describe here the 
expression and characterization of a biologically active heterodimer composed of 
the liver X receptor β-ligand binding domain and retinoid X receptor α-ligand 
binding domain. Although many of these proteins were previously seen to be 
produced in E. coli as insoluble aggregates or "inclusion bodies", I show here 
that as a form of heterodimer they can be made in soluble forms that are 
biologically active. This suggests that co-expression of the liver X receptor 
β-ligand binding domain with its binding partner improves the solubility of the 
complex and probably assists in their correct folding, thereby functioning as a 
type of molecular chaperone.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1406.06013
PMID: 25223325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Aug;309:123361. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123361. 
Epub 2020 Apr 10.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for 2,3-butanediol production from 
cellulosic biomass by using glucose-inducible gene expression system.

Sathesh-Prabu C(1), Kim D(2), Lee SK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and 
Technology (UNIST), Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and 
Technology (UNIST), Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea; Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan 
44919, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and 
Technology (UNIST), Ulsan 44919, Republic of Korea; Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan 
44919, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: sklee@unist.ac.kr.

A glucose-inducible gene expression system has been developed using HexR-Pzwf1 
of Pseudomonas putida to induce the metabolic pathways. Since the system is 
controlled by an Entner-Doudoroff pathway (EDP) intermediate, the EDP of 
Escherichia coli was activated by deleting pfkA and gntR genes. Growth 
experiment with green fluorescent protein as a reporter indicated that the 
induction of this system was tightly controlled over a wide range of glucose in 
E. coli without adding any inducer. 2,3-butanediol (BDO) synthetic pathway genes 
were expressed by this system in the pfkA-gntR-deleted strain. The resultant 
engineered strain harbouring this system efficiently produced BDO with a 71% 
increased titer than the control strain. The strain was also able to produce BDO 
from a mixture of glucose and xylose which is comparable to glucose alone. 
Further, the strain produced 11 g/L of BDO at a yield of 0.48 g/g from the 
hydrolysate of empty palm fruit bunches. This system can also be applied in many 
other bio-production processes from lignocellulosic biomass.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123361
PMID: 32305846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Bioconjug Chem. 2020 Jun 17;31(6):1651-1660. doi: 
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.0c00208. Epub 2020 Jun 4.

Long-Acting Human Growth Hormone Receptor Antagonists Produced in E. coli and 
Conjugated with Polyethylene Glycol.

Wang Y(1), Langley RJ(2), Tamshen K(3), Jamieson SM(2)(4), Lu M(1), Maynard 
HD(3)(5), Perry JK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Liggins Institute, University of Auckland, Auckland 1023, New Zealand.
(2)Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery, Auckland 1023, New 
Zealand.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, 607 Charles E. Young Drive East, Los Angeles, California 90095-1569, 
United States.
(4)Auckland Cancer Society Research Centre, School of Medical Sciences, 
University of Auckland, Auckland 1023, New Zealand.
(5)California NanoSystems Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, 570 
Westwood Plaza Building, Los Angeles, California 90095, United States.

Growth hormone (GH) is a peptide hormone that mediates actions through binding 
to a cell surface GH receptor (GHR). The GHR antagonist, B2036, combines an 
amino acid substitution at 120 that confers GHR antagonist activity, with eight 
additional amino acid substitutions. Conjugation to polyethylene glycol (PEG) 
increases the serum half-life of these proteins due to reduced renal clearance. 
Recombinant forms of GH and its antagonists are mainly produced in prokaryotic 
expression systems, such as E. coli. However, efficient production in E. coli is 
problematic, as these proteins form aggregates as inclusion bodies resulting in 
poor solubility. In the present study, we demonstrate that N-terminal fusion to 
a thioredoxin (Trx) fusion partner improves soluble expression of 
codon-optimized B2036 in E. coli when expressed at 18 °C. Expression, 
purification and PEGylation protocols were established for three GHR 
antagonists: B2036, B20, and G120Rv. Following purification, these antagonists 
inhibited the proliferation of Ba/F3-GHR cells in a concentration-dependent 
manner. PEGylation with amine-reactive 5 kDa methoxy PEG succinimidyl propionate 
yielded a heterogeneous mixture of conjugates containing four to seven PEG 
moieties. PEGylation significantly reduced in vitro bioactivity of the 
conjugates. However, substitution of lysine to arginine at amino acid residue 
120 in B2036 improved the in vitro activity of the PEGylated protein when 
compared to unmodified PEGylated B2036. Pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated 
that the circulating half-life of PEGylated B20 was 15.2 h in mice. Taken 
together, we describe an effective strategy to produce biologically active 
PEGylated human GHR antagonists.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.0c00208
PMID: 32423203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. AMB Express. 2015 Dec;5(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s13568-015-0150-3. Epub 2015 Sep 22.

Lycopene overproduction and in situ extraction in organic-aqueous culture 
systems using a metabolically engineered Escherichia coli.

Gallego-Jara J(1), de Diego T(2), Del Real Á(3), Écija-Conesa A(4), Manjón A(5), 
Cánovas M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B) and Immunology, Faculty 
of Chemistry, University of Murcia, Campus de Espinardo, Regional Campus of 
International Excellence ''Campus Mare Nostrum'', P.O. Box 4021, 30100, Murcia, 
Spain. julia.gallego@um.es.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B) and Immunology, Faculty 
of Chemistry, University of Murcia, Campus de Espinardo, Regional Campus of 
International Excellence ''Campus Mare Nostrum'', P.O. Box 4021, 30100, Murcia, 
Spain. tdp@um.es.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B) and Immunology, Faculty 
of Chemistry, University of Murcia, Campus de Espinardo, Regional Campus of 
International Excellence ''Campus Mare Nostrum'', P.O. Box 4021, 30100, Murcia, 
Spain. alvarodel.real92@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B) and Immunology, Faculty 
of Chemistry, University of Murcia, Campus de Espinardo, Regional Campus of 
International Excellence ''Campus Mare Nostrum'', P.O. Box 4021, 30100, Murcia, 
Spain. ana.ecija@um.es.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B) and Immunology, Faculty 
of Chemistry, University of Murcia, Campus de Espinardo, Regional Campus of 
International Excellence ''Campus Mare Nostrum'', P.O. Box 4021, 30100, Murcia, 
Spain. amanjon@um.es.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (B) and Immunology, Faculty 
of Chemistry, University of Murcia, Campus de Espinardo, Regional Campus of 
International Excellence ''Campus Mare Nostrum'', P.O. Box 4021, 30100, Murcia, 
Spain. mcanovas@um.es.

Lycopene is an import ant compound with an increasing industrial value. However, 
there is still no biotechnological process to obtain it. In this study, a 
semi-continuous system for lycopene extraction from recombinant Escherichia coli 
BL21 cells is proposed. A two-phase culture mode using organic solvents was 
found to maximize lycopene production through in situ extraction from cells. 
Within the reactor, three phases were formed during the process: an aqueous 
phase containing the recombinant E. coli, an interphase, and an organic phase. 
Lycopene was extracted from the cells to both the interphase and the organic 
phase and, consequently, thus enhancing its production. Maximum lycopene 
production (74.71 ± 3.74 mg L(-1)) was obtained for an octane-aqueous culture 
system using the E. coli BL21LF strain, a process that doubled the level 
obtained in the control aqueous culture. Study of the interphase by transmission 
electron microscopy (TEM) showed the proteo-lipidic nature and the high storage 
capacity of lycopene. Moreover, a cell viability test by flow cytometry (CF) 
after 24 h of culture indicated that 24 % of the population could be re-used. 
Therefore, a batch series reactor was designed for semi-continuous lycopene 
extraction. After five cycles of operation (120 h), lycopene production was 
similar to that obtained in the control aqueous medium. A final specific 
lycopene yield of up to 49.70 ± 2.48 mg g(-1) was reached at 24 h, which 
represents to the highest titer to date. In conclusion, the aqueous-organic 
semi-continuous culture system proposed is the first designed for lycopene 
extraction, representing an important breakthrough in the development of a 
competitive biotechnological process for lycopene production and extraction.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-015-0150-3
PMCID: PMC4579157
PMID: 26395597


639. Microb Cell Fact. 2010 Apr 13;9:22. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-22.

Co-expression of Skp and FkpA chaperones improves cell viability and alters the 
global expression of stress response genes during scFvD1.3 production.

Ow DS(1), Lim DY, Nissom PM, Camattari A, Wong VV.

Author information:
(1)Bioprocessing Technology Institute, Agency for Science, Technology and 
Research (A*STAR), Singapore. dave_ow@bti.a-star.edu.sg

BACKGROUND: The overexpression of scFv antibody fragments in the periplasmic 
space of Escherichia coli frequently results in extensive protein misfolding and 
loss of cell viability. Although protein folding factors such as Skp and FkpA 
are often exploited to restore the solubility and functionality of recombinant 
protein products, their exact impact on cellular metabolism during periplasmic 
antibody fragment expression is not clearly understood. In this study, we 
expressed the scFvD1.3 antibody fragment in E. coli BL21 and evaluated the 
overall physiological and global gene expression changes upon Skp or FkpA 
co-expression.
RESULTS: The periplasmic expression of scFvD1.3 led to a rapid accumulation of 
insoluble scFvD1.3 proteins and a decrease in cell viability. The co-expression 
of Skp and FkpA improved scFvD1.3 solubility and cell viability in a 
dosage-dependent manner. Through mutagenesis experiments, it was found that only 
the chaperone activity of FkpA, not the peptidyl-prolyl isomerase (PPIase) 
activity, is required for the improvement in cell viability. Global gene 
expression analysis of the scFvD1.3 cells over the chaperone-expressing cells 
showed a clear up-regulation of genes involved in heat-shock and misfolded 
protein stress responses. These included genes of the major HSP70 DnaK chaperone 
family and key proteases belonging to the Clp and Lon protease systems. Other 
metabolic gene expression trends include: (1) the differential regulation of 
several energy metabolic genes, (2) down-regulation of the central metabolic TCA 
cycle and transport genes, and (3) up-regulation of ribosomal genes.
CONCLUSIONS: The simultaneous activation of multiple stress related and other 
metabolic genes may constitute the stress response to protein misfolding in the 
scFvD1.3 cells. These gene expression information could prove to be valuable for 
the selection and construction of reporter contructs to monitor the misfolded 
protein stress response during antibody fragment production.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-22
PMCID: PMC2868799
PMID: 20388215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2016 Dec 19;9:267. doi: 10.1186/s13068-016-0680-1. 
eCollection 2016.

Self-regulated 1-butanol production in Escherichia coli based on the endogenous 
fermentative control.

Wen RC(1), Shen CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, 101, 
Section 2, Kuang-Fu Road, Hsinchu, 30013 Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: As a natural fermentation product secreted by Clostridium species, 
bio-based 1-butanol has attracted great attention for its potential as 
alternative fuel and chemical feedstock. Feasibility of microbial 1-butanol 
production has also been demonstrated in various recombinant hosts.
RESULTS: In this work, we constructed a self-regulated 1-butanol production 
system in Escherichia coli by borrowing its endogenous fermentation regulatory 
elements (FRE) to automatically drive the 1-butanol biosynthetic genes in 
response to its natural fermentation need. Four different cassette of 5' 
upstream transcription and translation regulatory regions controlling the 
expression of the major fermentative genes ldhA, frdABCD, adhE, and ackA were 
cloned individually to drive the 1-butanol pathway genes distributed among three 
plasmids, resulting in 64 combinations that were tested for 1-butanol production 
efficiency. Fermentation of 1-butanol was triggered by anaerobicity in all 
cases. In the growth-decoupled production screening, only combinations with 
formate dehydrogenase (Fdh) overexpressed under FRE adhE demonstrated higher 
titer of 1-butanol anaerobically. In vitro assay revealed that 1-butanol 
productivity was directly correlated with Fdh activity under such condition. 
Switching cells to oxygen-limiting condition prior to significant accumulation 
of biomass appeared to be crucial for the induction of enzyme synthesis and the 
efficiency of 1-butanol fermentation. With the selection pressure of anaerobic 
NADH balance, the engineered strain demonstrated stable production of 1-butanol 
anaerobically without the addition of inducer or antibiotics, reaching a titer 
of 10 g/L in 24 h and a yield of 0.25 g/g glucose under high-density 
fermentation.
CONCLUSIONS: Here, we successfully engineered a self-regulated 1-butanol 
fermentation system in E. coli based on the natural regulation of fermentation 
reactions. This work also demonstrated the effectiveness of selection pressure 
based on redox balance anaerobically. Results obtained from this study may help 
enhance the industrial relevance of 1-butanol synthesis using E. coli and 
solidifies the possibility of strain improvement by directed evolution.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-016-0680-1
PMCID: PMC5168855
PMID: 28031744


641. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2007 Dec;27(12):1888-91.

[Adenovirus-mediated antisense HSP70 cDNA transfection inhibits the growth of 
laryngeal carcinoma Hep-2 cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang XX(1), Yao XB, Ji XS, Li SL, Zhu HL, Fan DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, 451 Hospital of PLA, Xi'an 710054, China. 
xiaoxiawang9139@sina.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant adenovirus vector carrying antisense heat 
shock protein 70 (HSP70) cDNA and observe its effect on inhibiting the growth of 
laryngeal carcinoma Hep-2 cells.
METHODS: The HSP70 gene fragment encoding the 5' region was cloned reversely 
into the shuttle plasmid PAdTrack-CMV, and the resultant plasmid was recombined 
with the backbone plasmid PadEasy-1 in the E.coli Bj5183 cells to generate the 
recombinant adenovirus vector. The adenovirus were then packaged and amplified 
in 293 cells, and the viral titer was determined using GFP.
RESULTS: The recombinant adenovirus vector carrying antisense HSP70 cDNA was 
constructed successfully with a viral titer of 8 x 10(9). HSP70 expression of 
Hep-2 cells was obviously blocked by antisense HSP70 RNA, and Western blotting 
and immuohistochemistry demonstrated that cells transfected with antisense HSP70 
did not express or express HSP70 at low levels. Flow cytometry presented 
apoptotic peak in the antisense HSP70-transfected cells, but not in the control 
cells.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant adenovirus vector containing antisense HSP70 cDNA 
can effectively deliver antisense HSP70 gene into Hep-2 cells, suggesting the 
great potential of this gene therapy strategy in management of human laryngeal 
carcinoma.

PMID: 18159012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jun;47(2):427-33. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.10.024. Epub 
2005 Nov 16.

Expression, purification, and characterization of a novel recombinant fusion 
protein, rhTPO/SCF, in Escherichia coli.

Zang Y(1), Zhang X, Yuan D, Zhang Y, Zhu J, Lu H, Chang C, Qin J.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Science, 
Nanjing University, PR China.

Thrombopoietin (TPO) is the principal regulatory cytokine of megakaryopoiesis 
and thrombopoiesis and promotes all aspects of megakaryocyte development. Stem 
cell factor (SCF) is mainly a pleiotropic cytokine acting on hematopoiesis by 
promoting the survival and proliferation of hematopoietic stem cells and has a 
potent synergistic effect on megakaryopoiesis in the presence of TPO. Here, we 
report the construction, expression, and purification of a novel recombinant 
human thrombopoietin/stem cell factor (rhTPO/SCF) fusion protein, which consists 
of a truncated human thrombopoietin (1-157 a.a.) plus a truncated human stem 
cell factor (1-145 a.a.), linked by a peptide (GGGGSPGGSGGGGSGG). The TPO/SCF 
gene was cloned into the Escherichia coli expression vector pET28a and expressed 
in BL21(DE3) strain. The rhTPO/SCF constituted up to 6% of the total bacterial 
protein. Co-expression with E. coli chaperones, Trigger Factor (TF) and 
GroES/GroEL, and lowering cultivation temperature cooperatively improved the 
solubility of expressed rhTPO/SCF, resulting in about fourfold increase in the 
yield soluble rhTPO/SCF. The rhTPO/SCF was purified to homogeneity using anion 
exchange followed by metal affinity chromatography. Western blot analysis 
confirmed the identity of the purified protein. rhTPO/SCF stimulated a 
dose-dependent cell proliferation in both TF1 and Mo7e cell lines.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.10.024
PMID: 16343941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2007 Dec;29(6):772-6.

[Expression of human HZF1 in E. coli and preparation of antibody against human 
HZF1 protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Peng H(1), Zhang X, Du ZW, Zhang JW.

Author information:
(1)National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic 
Medical Sciences, CAMS and PUMC, Beijing 100005, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express human HZF1 fusion protein in E. coli and to obtain an 
anti-HZF1 antibody.
METHODS: A DNA fragment encoding non-zinc finger region of HZF1 protein was 
inserted into pET30a vector to get the recombination expression plasmid 
pET30a-HZF1. E. coli was transformed with pET30a-HZF1 and the selected clones 
were cultured with isopropy-beta-D-thiogalactoside induction. The proteins were 
prepared from the culture and the fusion protein was purified by Ni column. 
Rabbits were immunized and reinforced three times with the purified fusion 
protein. The antiserum was collected and the titer and the specificity of the 
antibody were checked by ELISA and Western blot.
RESULTS: Antibody against HZF1 was obtained and its titer was more than 1:100 
000, as proven by ELISA. Western blot analysis showed specific reaction between 
this antibody and HZF1 fusion protein or the endogenetic HZF1 protein in 
hemin-induced K562 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The specific antibody against HZF1 is obtained. The antibody may 
have potential application in farther HZF1 function study and HZF1 determination 
in tissues and cells.

PMID: 18595257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Biotechnol. 2014 Sep 30;186:169-74. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.06.025. Epub 
2014 Jul 3.

Coupled selection of protein solubility in E. coli using uroporphyrinogen III 
methyltransferase as red fluorescent reporter.

Wang Z(1), Yan H(1), Li S(1), Zhang K(1), Cheng B(1), Fan J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, 
PR China.
(2)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, 
PR China. Electronic address: fanjun@ahau.edu.cn.

Uroporphyrinogen III methyltransferase (UMT) is a novel reporter owing to the 
catalytic products accumulated in cells emitting red florescence. Overexpression 
of UMT confers resistance of the Escherichia coli cells to potassium tellurite 
that inhibits cell growth. In this study, we applied UMT reporter for monitoring 
protein solubility of MBP or TEV protease variants under different expression 
conditions, as well as 12 maize proteins with either the designed linker or 
N-terminal SUMO tag. Effects of five enzymes involved in heme and siroheme 
biosynthesis on the reporter were also investigated. With increasing 
concentrations of potassium tellurite, colony numbers of the mixed cells 
expressing the selected five proteins with different solubility were decreased, 
but colonies displaying red fluorescence was identified to be produced the 
protein with relatively high solubility. The developed UMT reporter system is 
sensitive for monitoring protein solubility based on coupled fluorescence and 
chemical selection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.06.025
PMID: 24998762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2017 Mar 20;37(3):312-316. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1673-4254.2017.03.06.

[Expression of Proteus mirabilis polyphosphate kinase and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibodies].

[Article in Chinese]

Peng L(1), Ou JY, Pan JY, Deng C, Chen JH, Cao H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
Medical University, Guangzhou 510260, China.E-mail: pl_206@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify polyphosphate kinase (PPK) from Proteus 
mirabilis and prepare the polyclonal antibody against PPK.
METHODS: The antigenicity and hydrophobicity of PPK were analyzed using 
software. The N-terminal conservative sequence containing 309 amino acids was 
selected as the target peptide, and its corresponding gene sequence with 
modification based on prokaryotic cells-preferred codon was synthesized and 
inserted into plasmid pET28b(+). The constructed recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) and induced with IPTG. The 
expressed fusion protein was purified using Ni-affinity chromatography. The 
purified protein was injected along with adjuvant in rabbits to prepare the 
polyclonal antibodies against PPK.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: PPK fusion protein expressed by E. coli was purified 
successfully using Ni-affinity chromatography. ELISA result demonstrated that 
the harvested rabbit anti-sera against PPK had a high titer of 1:512 000, and 
Western blotting showed a good specificity of the antibody, which can be used 
further study of the role of PPK in the pathogenesis of Proteus mirabilis 
infection.

目的: 表达、纯化奇异变形杆菌聚磷酸盐激酶（PPK）蛋白，制备PPK多克隆抗体。
方法: 
利用分子生物学软件分析奇异变形杆菌PPK的抗原性、疏水性等参数，选取N端较保守的309个氨基酸，并对其基因序列进行密码子优化以利于原核表达。合成新的基因序列后插入pET28b(+)质粒，转化入转化宿主菌BL21（DE3），诱导、表达融合蛋白。通过镍琼脂糖亲和层析技术，将获得的融合蛋白进行纯化。以纯化的蛋白作为免疫原并结合使用佐剂，背部多点注射新西兰大白兔，ELISA检测兔血清效价，Western 
Blotting验证抗体特异性。
结果: 成功构建了奇异变形杆菌PPK的原核表达重组质粒，可在0.5 mmol/L IPTG、37 
℃条件下获得较好的诱导、表达；利用镍柱纯化后的PPK蛋白与免疫佐剂一起，采用背部多点接种新西兰大白兔，制备了效价高的兔抗血清。ELISA检测血清效价达到1∶512 
000，Western Blotting对ppk基因缺失株及其野生株进行验证显示抗体特异性良好。
结论: 
利用pET28b(+)载体可构建奇异变形杆菌PPK的原核表达重组质粒，表达、纯化后的蛋白与佐剂共同免疫新西兰大白兔，可获得效价高、特异性良好的兔多克隆抗体血清，为奇异变形杆菌聚磷酸盐激酶的检测以及深入研究PPK在奇异变形杆菌致病中的作用奠定了基础。

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1673-4254.2017.03.06
PMCID: PMC6780429
PMID: 28377345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Jul;123:97-104. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.04.002. Epub 
2016 Apr 5.

Enhancement of solubility and yield of a β-glucan receptor Dectin-1 
C-type lectin-like domain in Escherichia coli with a solubility-enhancement tag.

Dulal HP(1), Nagae M(2), Ikeda A(2), Morita-Matsumoto K(2), Adachi Y(3), Ohno 
N(3), Yamaguchi Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Structural Glycobiology Team, Systems Glycobiology Research Group, RIKEN, 2-1 
Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; Graduate School of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo, Tokyo 
113-0034, Japan.
(2)Structural Glycobiology Team, Systems Glycobiology Research Group, RIKEN, 2-1 
Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(3)Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Science, 1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachioji, 
Tokyo, 192-0392, Japan.
(4)Structural Glycobiology Team, Systems Glycobiology Research Group, RIKEN, 2-1 
Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; Graduate School of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo, Tokyo 
113-0034, Japan. Electronic address: yyoshiki@riken.jp.

Dectin-1 is a C-type lectin-like pattern recognition receptor for 
β(1-3)-glucans. It plays a crucial role in protecting against fungal invasion 
through binding to β-glucans which are commonly present on the fungal cell wall. 
To probe its ligand binding mechanism by NMR, we expressed the recombinant 
murine Dectin-1 C-type lectin-like domain (CTLD) in E. coli using pCold vector 
and purified it. However, the high concentration of Dectin-1 CTLD required for 
NMR analysis could not be attained due to its inherent low solubility and low 
bacterial expression. In this study, we tried to increase expression and 
solubility of Dectin-1 CTLD by codon optimization and fusion of a GB1 tag (B1 
domain of streptococcal Protein G). GB1 was inserted on either the N-terminal 
(NT) or C-terminal end as well as both terminal ends of human and mouse Dectin-1 
CTLDs. A pure monomeric sample was only obtained with NT-GB1 fused mouse 
Dectin-1. Expression of mouse Dectin-1 CTLD yielded 0.9 ± 0.2 mg/L culture, 
codon optimized mouse Dectin-1 CTLD produced 1.4 ± 0.2 mg/L, and the tag-fused 
domain 7.1 ± 0.3 mg/L. The tag also increased solubility from 0.1 mM to 1.4 mM. 
The recombinant protein was correctly folded, in a monomeric state, and 
specifically bound β-glucan laminarin. These results indicate that fusing GB1 to 
the N-terminus of mouse Dectin-1 domain advantageously increases yield and 
solubility, allows retention of native structure, and that the site of fusion is 
critical.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.04.002
PMID: 27062941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nat Protoc. 2007;2(2):383-91. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2007.50.

A generic protocol for the expression and purification of recombinant proteins 
in Escherichia coli using a combinatorial His6-maltose binding protein fusion 
tag.

Nallamsetty S(1), Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, 
National Cancer Institute at Frederick, P.O. Box B, Frederick, Maryland 
21702-1201, USA.

We describe a generic protocol for the overproduction and purification of 
recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli. The strategy utilizes a dual 
His6-maltose binding protein (HisMBP) affinity tag that can be removed from the 
target protein by digestion of the fusion protein at a designed site by tobacco 
etch virus protease. The MBP moiety serves to enhance the solubility and promote 
the proper folding of its fusion partners, and the polyhistidine tag facilitates 
its purification to homogeneity. This protocol is divided into three stages, 
each of which takes approximately 1 week to complete: (i) construction of a 
HisMBP fusion vector; (ii) a pilot experiment to assess the yield and solubility 
of the target protein; and (iii) the large-scale production and purification of 
the target protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2007.50
PMID: 17406599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2022 Jan 6;38(2):29. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-021-03204-1.

Rational design of a new variant of Reteplase with optimized physicochemical 
profile and large-scale production in Escherichia coli.

Seyedhosseini Ghaheh H(1), Sajjadi S(2), Shafiee F(1), Barzegari E(3), Moazen 
F(1), Mir Mohammad Sadeghi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, 
Iran.
(3)Medical Biology Research Center, Health Technology Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. 
h_sadeghi@pharm.mui.ac.ir.

Structural engineering of the recombinant thrombolytic drug, Reteplase, and its 
cost-effective production are important goals in the pharmaceutical industry. In 
this study, a single-point mutant of the protein was rationally designed and 
evaluated in terms of physicochemical characteristics, enzymatic activity, as 
well as large-scale production settings. An accurate homology model of Reteplase 
was used as the input to appropriate tools to identify the aggregation-prone 
sites, while considering the structural stability. Selected variants underwent 
extensive molecular dynamic simulations (total 540 ns) to assess their solvation 
profile and their thermal stability. The Reteplase-fibrin interaction was 
investigated by docking. The best variant was expressed in E. coli, and 
Box-Behnken design was used through response surface methodology to optimize its 
expression conditions. M72R mutant demonstrated appropriate stability, enhanced 
enzymatic activity (p < 0.05), and strengthened binding to fibrin, compared to 
the wild type. The optimal conditions for the variant's production in a 
bioreactor was shown to be 37 ºC, induction with 0.5 mM IPTG, for 2 h of 
incubation. Under these conditions, the final amount of the produced enzyme was 
increased by about 23 mg/L compared to the wild type, with an increase in the 
enzymatic activity by about 2 IU/mL. This study thus offered a new Reteplase 
variant with nearly all favorable properties, except solubility. The impact of 
temperature and incubation time on its large-scale production were underlined as 
well.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-021-03204-1
PMID: 34989886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. BMC Biotechnol. 2015 Aug 19;15:78. doi: 10.1186/s12896-015-0185-1.

Cold shock induction of recombinant Arctic environmental genes.

Bjerga GE(1)(2), Williamson AK(3).

Author information:
(1)Norstruct, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
University of Tromsø, N-9037, Tromsø, Norway. gro.bjerga@uni.no.
(2)Centre for Applied Biotechnology, Uni Research AS, Thormøhlensgt. 55, N-5008, 
Bergen, Norway. gro.bjerga@uni.no.
(3)Norstruct, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
University of Tromsø, N-9037, Tromsø, Norway. adele.k.williamson@uit.no.

BACKGROUND: Heterologous expression of psychrophilic enzymes in E. coli is 
particularly challenging due to their intrinsic instability. The low stability 
is regarded as a consequence of adaptation that allow them to function at low 
temperatures. Recombinant production presents a significant barrier to their 
exploitation for commercial applications in industry.
METHODS: As part of an enzyme discovery project we have investigated the utility 
of a cold-shock inducible promoter for low-temperature expression of five 
diverse genes derived from the metagenomes of marine Arctic sediments. After 
evaluation of their production, we further optimized for soluble production by 
building a vector suite from which the environmental genes could be expressed as 
fusions with solubility tags.
RESULTS: We found that the low-temperature optimized system produced high 
expression levels for all putatively cold-active proteins, as well as reducing 
host toxicity for several candidates. As a proof of concept, activity assays 
with one of the candidates, a putative chitinase, showed that functional protein 
was obtained using the low-temperature optimized vector suite.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that a cold-shock inducible system is advantageous for 
the heterologous expression of psychrophilic proteins, and may also be useful 
for expression of toxic mesophilic and thermophilic proteins where properties of 
the proteins are deleterious to the host cell growth.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-015-0185-1
PMCID: PMC4544801
PMID: 26286037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Virol Methods. 2014 Dec;209:82-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.09.007. Epub 
2014 Sep 17.

Production of polyclonal antibody to a recombinant non-structural protein Nsp1a 
of human astrovirus.

Liu C(1), Liu WH(2), Kan LL(3), Li X(2), Li YG(2), Zhao W(4).

Author information:
(1)1st affiliated hospital endocrinology, Liaoning Medical University, Jinzhou, 
121000 Liaoning, China.
(2)Liaoning Medical University, Jinzhou, 121200 Liaoning, China.
(3)Panjin Liaohe Oilfield General Hospital, Panjin, 124010 Liaoning, China.
(4)Liaoning Medical University, Jinzhou, 121200 Liaoning, China. Electronic 
address: zhaowei8072@163.com.

Human astrovirus (HAstV) are important pathogens that cause acute viral diarrhea 
in infants. Little is known about the mechanisms of astrovirus-induced diarrhea. 
Previous studies have suggested that an apoptosis inducer may be encoded in the 
non-structural protein (nsP1a) of astrovirus and contribute to virus-induced 
diarrhea. To study the biological function of nsP1a and to gain further insight 
into nsP1a protein-host cell interactions, good quality antibodies must be 
produced. The nsP1agene of HAstV-1 was cloned into a bacterial expression vector 
Pgex-6P-1. The recombinant plasmid Pgex-6P-nsP1a was transformed into 
Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) and expressed as a fusion protein that contains 
N-terminal GST tags. The expressed recombinant protein was purified and used as 
an antigen to produce an nsP1a antiserum in rabbits. ELISA was used to detect 
the titer of specific antibodies. Specificity activity was detected by Western 
blot and immunofluorescence analysis. The titer of specific antibodies was up to 
1:30,000. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis indicated that the 
polyclonal antibody could recognize specifically the HAstV-1 nsP1a protein.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.09.007
PMID: 25239369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2009 Jan;25(1):23-8.

[Cloning, prokaryotic expression of cattle Ghrelin gene and biological activity 
detection of the expressed protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang A(1), Zhang L, Chen H, Zhang L, Lan X, Zhang C, Zhang C, Zhu Z.

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Laboratory of Molecular Biology for 
Agriculture, Northwest A & F University, Yangling 712100, China.

The cDNA of cattle Ghrelin gene was amplified from abomasum fundic gland mRNA of 
Qinchuan Cattle by RT-PCR. PCR product was cloned into the T vector pGM-T to 
construct pGh-T1 for sequencing. Then the cDNA was subcloned into the 
prokaryotic expressing plasmid vector pET32a (+) and transformed into host 
Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3) for expression. The expression of pGh-32 
mature Ghrelin protein was induced by IPTG and was identified by SDS-PAGE. The 
expression product was observed with soluble protein and inclusion body. Western 
blotting showed that the recombinant protein was recognized by his-antibody 
specifically. The protein was purified by Ni-NTA column and was used to inject 
rabbits to obtain polyclona antibody. ELISA result showed that the antibody 
titer was 1:12 800. The immunohistochemistry test between the hypothalamus 
arcuate nucleus and the antibody showed that fusion protein had biological 
activity. This will provide a basis for further study on the biological function 
of Ghrelin protein to growth and development and fat deposition of cattle.

PMID: 19441222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Biosci Bioeng. 2015 Dec;120(6):637-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2015.04.005. Epub 
2015 May 1.

Heterologous expression of a fungal sterol esterase/lipase in different hosts: 
Effect on solubility, glycosylation and production.

Vaquero ME(1), Barriuso J(1), Medrano FJ(1), Prieto A(1), Martínez MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas, Department of Environmental Biology, 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Ramiro de Maeztu 9, 28040 
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas, Department of Environmental Biology, 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Ramiro de Maeztu 9, 28040 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: mjmartinez@cib.csic.es.

Ophiostoma piceae secretes a versatile sterol-esterase (OPE) that shows high 
efficiency in both hydrolysis and synthesis of triglycerides and sterol esters. 
This enzyme produces aggregates in aqueous solutions, but the recombinant 
protein, expressed in Komagataella (synonym Pichia) pastoris, showed higher 
catalytic efficiency because of its higher solubility. This fact owes to a 
modification in the N-terminal sequence of the protein expressed in Pichia 
pastoris, which incorporated 4-8 additional amino acids, affecting its 
aggregation behavior. In this study we present a newly engineered P. pastoris 
strain with improved protein production. We also produced the recombinant 
protein in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in the prokaryotic host 
Escherichia coli, corroborating that the presence of these N-terminal extra 
amino acids affected the protein's solubility. The OPE produced in the new 
P. pastoris strain presented the same physicochemical properties than the old 
one. An inactive form of the enzyme was produced by the bacterium, but the 
recombinant esterase from both yeasts was active even after its enzymatic 
deglycosylation, suggesting that the presence of N-linked carbohydrates in the 
mature protein is not essential for enzyme activity. Although the yield in 
S. cerevisiae was lower than that obtained in P. pastoris, this work 
demonstrates the importance of the choice of the heterologous host for 
successful production of soluble and active recombinant protein. In addition, 
S. cerevisiae constitutes a good engineering platform for improving the 
properties of this biocatalyst.

Copyright © 2015 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2015.04.005
PMID: 25939548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Bioresour Technol. 2012 Jan;103(1):351-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.10.022. 
Epub 2011 Oct 14.

Simultaneous production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid and 1,3-propanediol from 
glycerol by a recombinant strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Huang Y(1), Li Z, Shimizu K, Ye Q.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China.

In this study, an aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) was over-expressed in Klebsiella 
pneumoniae for simultaneous production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) and 
1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO). Various genes encoding ALDH were cloned and expressed 
in K. pneumoniae, and expression of Escherichia colialdH resulted in the highest 
3-HP titer in anaerobic cultures in shake flasks. Anaerobic fed-batch culture of 
this recombinant strain was further performed in a 5-L reactor. The 3-HP 
concentration and yield reached 24.4 g/L and 0.18 mol/mol glycerol, 
respectively, and at the same time 1,3-PDO achieved 49.3 g/L with a yield of 
0.43 mol/mol in 24 h. The overall yield of 3-HP plus 1,3-PDO was 0.61 mol/mol. 
Over-expression of the E. coli AldH also reduced the yields of by-products 
except for lactate. This study demonstrated the possibility of simultaneous 
production of 3-HP and 1,3-PDO by K. pneumoniae under anaerobic conditions 
without supply of vitamin B12.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.10.022
PMID: 22055092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Biomacromolecules. 2014 Sep 8;15(9):3278-89. doi: 10.1021/bm500670r. Epub 2014 
Aug 5.

Biomimetic production of silk-like recombinant squid sucker ring teeth proteins.

Ding D(1), Guerette PA, Hoon S, Kong KW, Cornvik T, Nilsson M, Kumar A, Lescar 
J, Miserez A.

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University 
, 50 Nanyang Avenue, Singapore 639798.

The sucker ring teeth (SRT) of Humboldt squid exhibit mechanical properties that 
rival those of robust engineered synthetic polymers. Remarkably, these 
properties are achieved without a mineral phase or covalent cross-links. 
Instead, SRT are exclusively made of silk-like proteins called "suckerins", 
which assemble into nanoconfined β-sheet reinforced supramolecular networks. In 
this study, three streamlined strategies for full-length recombinant suckerin 
protein production and purification were developed. Recombinant suckerin 
exhibited high solubility and colloidal stability in aqueous-based solvents. In 
addition, the colloidal suspensions exhibited a concentration-dependent 
conformational switch, from random coil to β-sheet enriched structures. Our 
results demonstrate that recombinant suckerin can be produced in a facile manner 
in E. coli and processed from mild aqueous solutions into materials enriched in 
β-sheets. We suggest that recombinant suckerin-based materials offer potential 
for a range of biomedical and engineering applications.

DOI: 10.1021/bm500670r
PMID: 25068184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Protein Sci. 2003 Sep;12(9):2073-80. doi: 10.1110/ps.0393503.

Refolding out of guanidine hydrochloride is an effective approach for 
high-throughput structural studies of small proteins.

Maxwell KL(1), Bona D, Liu C, Arrowsmith CH, Edwards AM.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute and Department of Medical Biophysics, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada.

Low in vivo solubility of recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli can 
seriously hinder the purification of structural samples for large-scale 
proteomic NMR and X-ray crystallography studies. Previous results from our 
laboratory have shown that up to one half of all bacterial and archaeal proteins 
are insoluble when overexpressed in E. coli. Although a number of strategies may 
be used to increase in vivo protein solubility, there are no generally 
applicable methods, and the expression of each insoluble recombinant protein 
must be individually optimized. For this reason, we have tested a generic 
denaturation/refolding protein purification procedure to assess the number of 
structural samples that could be generated by using this methodology. Our 
results show that a denaturation/refolding protocol is appropriate for many 
small proteins (<or=18 kD) that are normally soluble in vivo. In addition, 
refolding the purified proteins by using dialysis against a single buffer 
allowed us to obtain soluble protein samples of 58% of small proteins that were 
found in the insoluble fraction in vivo, and 10% of the initial number of 
proteins provided good heteronuclear single quantum coherence (HSQC) NMR 
spectra. We conclude that a denaturation/refolding protocol is an efficient way 
to generate structural samples for high-throughput studies of small proteins.

DOI: 10.1110/ps.0393503
PMCID: PMC2324003
PMID: 12931005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2007 Sep;23(5):812-7. doi: 
10.1016/s1872-2075(07)60052-1.

High-level expression of the Hcc domain of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin 
serotype A in Escherichia coli and its immunogenicity as an antigen.

Yu YZ(1), Sun ZW, Wang S, Yu WY.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, Beijing 100071, China.

A completely synthetic gene encoding the He domain of Clostridium botulinum 
neurotoxin serotype A (AHc, 1287 bp, 429 aa, -50 kD) was constructed with 
oligonucleotides. After expressed in Escherichia coli, soluble product AHc was 
gained and verified by SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis. The expressive level 
of recombinant AHc in E. coli was very high (36%-53% of soluble total proteins) 
and the purified yield was more than 30 mg/L by one-step purification. Then, the 
purified AHc was used to vaccinate Balb/c mice, which developed a strong and 
specific immune response as expected following administration of AHe protein via 
the subcutaneous route. Results from BoNT/A neutralization assay showed that the 
serum from mice vaccinated with AHc contained high titer protective antibody. 
These results showed that the soluble, stable and high-levelly expressive AHc 
not only could be produced by the prokaryotic expression system built in our 
lab, but also owned strong immunogenicity to prepare antitoxin for treatment and 
as sub-unit candidate vaccine for prophylaxis against botulinum toxin serotype 
A.

DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2075(07)60052-1
PMID: 18051857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Int J Biol Macromol. 2017 Oct;103:1044-1053. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.05.143. Epub 2017 May 25.

Osmolyte induced enhancement of expression and solubility of human dihydrofolate 
reductase: An in vivo study.

Rashid N(1), Thapliyal C(2), Chaudhuri Chattopadhyay P(3).

Author information:
(1)Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Molecular Biophysics Lab, Amity University, 
Sector 125, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201313, India.
(2)Kusuma School of Biological Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology, Haus 
Khas, New Delhi, 110016, India.
(3)Amity Institute of Biotechnology, Molecular Biophysics Lab, Amity University, 
Sector 125, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201313, India. Electronic address: 
pratimachaudhuri@yahoo.com.

The process of recombinant protein production in E. coli system is often 
hampered by the formation of insoluble aggregates. Human Dihydrofolate reductase 
(hDHFR), an enzyme involved in the synthesis of purine, thymidilate and several 
other amino acids like glycine, methionine and serine is highly aggregation 
prone. It catalyzes the reduction of dihydrofolate (H2F) in order to regenerate 
tetrahydrofolate (H4F) utilizing NADPH as a cofactor. We have attempted to 
ameliorate the production of soluble and functional protein by growing and 
inducing the cells under osmotic stress condition, in the presence of various 
osmolytes like glycerol, sorbitol, TMAO, proline and glycine at 37°C. The 
expression and yield of functional hDHFR protein were highly enhanced in the 
presence of these osmolytes. The specific activity of the purified recombinant 
hDHFR protein has also been increased to a cogent level in the presence of 
osmolytes. We also observed that protein expressed in presence of the osmolytes 
was stable in the denaturing conditions as compared to the protein expressed in 
absence of an osmolyte. We also observed using the intrinsic fluorescence 
spectroscopy that the osmolytes didn't interfere with the structure of the 
protein and in denaturing conditions the protein expressed in presence of 
osmolytes had more stability. Our study is consequential in increasing the 
production of functional and soluble protein in the cell extract and will also 
be appropriate to find a therapeutic agent against many neurodegenerative 
diseases.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.05.143
PMID: 28551440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Mol Med Rep. 2019 May;19(5):3889-3895. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2019.10019. Epub 2019 
Mar 13.

Preparation of a monoclonal antibody against the carcinoembryonic antigen, 
glypican‑3.

Zhang Y(1), Qiu D(1), Li R(1), Liu Y(2), Shi S(3), Wang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Stomatology, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin 300192, 
P.R. China.
(2)Department of Clinical Radiology, Kuopio University Hospital, FIN‑70210 
Kuopio, Finland.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, The Second Hospital of Tianjin 
Medical University, Tianjin Institute of Urology, Tianjin 300211, P.R. China.

The carcinoembryonic antigen, glypican‑3 (GPC3), is a putative therapeutic 
target and diagnostic marker of hepatoma. In the present study, a monoclonal 
antibody (mAb) specifically against GPC3 was obtained via cloning the sequence 
of GPC3 via polymerase chain reaction and inserting it into a pET16b vector 
prior to transfection into Escherichia coli (E. coli) BL21. BALB/c mice were 
immunized with 20 µg purified antigen by intrasplenic embedding. Splenocytes and 
mouse myeloma cells SP2/0 were fused; then, the hybridoma cells were screened by 
an indirect ELISA. The properties of the mAb were examined by western blotting 
and immunofluorescence analysis against the purified protein. The results 
revealed that the prokaryotic expression vector of GPC3 had been successfully 
generated and GPC3 was stably expressed in E. coli BL21. A stable hybridoma cell 
line, 2F3, was generated in the present study, which produced mAbs against GPC3. 
The mAb 2F3 had a high antibody titer and the isotype was identified as IgG1/κ; 
2F3 hybridomas had a median chromosome number of 98. Western blot and 
immunofluorescence analyses revealed that 2F3 specifically recognized 
recombinant and native GPC3. The 2F3 clone was proposed as a stable secretor of 
this mAb against GPC3. The results of present study indicated that the 
successful preparation of recombinant GPC3 protein and an anti‑human GPC3 mouse 
mAb may be provide a basis for developments in the diagnosis and treatment of 
liver cancer.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2019.10019
PMID: 30896845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. FEBS Lett. 2006 Feb 6;580(3):763-8. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2006.01.001. Epub 
2006 Jan 9.

Construction of a fully active truncated alternansucrase partially deleted of 
its carboxy-terminal domain.

Joucla G(1), Pizzut S, Monsan P, Remaud-Simeon M.

Author information:
(1)Ecole Supérieure de Technologie des Biomolécules de Bordeaux (ESTBB), 
Université Victor Segalen Bordeaux 2, 146 Rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux Cedex, 
France.

Recombinant expression of the large alternansucrase (2057 amino acids) was 
hindered in E. coli due to poor enzyme solubility and protein degradation. The 
effects of deletions of the alternansucrase C-terminal CW-like and APY repeated 
motifs on enzyme solubility and specificity were investigated. A truncated 
variant deleted of the APY repeats but harboring four C-terminal CW-like repeats 
displayed a high specific activity and the same specificity of product synthesis 
as the native enzyme. It is more soluble and suffers less degradation than full 
length alternansucrase. Hence this truncated variant is a promising tool for the 
further structural and kinetic study of this interesting enzyme.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2006.01.001
PMID: 16413550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Bioresour Technol. 2022 Mar 4;351:126949. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2022.126949. 
Online ahead of print.

Combinatorial metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for de novo production 
of 2'-fucosyllactose.

Lin L(1), Gong M(2), Liu Y(1), Li J(1), Lv X(1), Du G(3), Liu L(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China; Science Center for Future 
Foods, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(3)Science Center for Future Foods, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China; Science Center for Future 
Foods, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China. Electronic address: 
longliu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

2'-Fucosyllactose (2'-FL) is a kind of fucosylated lactose of human milk 
oligosaccharides (HMOs). In this work, Escherichia coli MG1655 was metabolically 
engineered to increase 2'-FL production. The 2'-FL titer was raised from 0.0118 
to 0.8062 g/L by increasing three gene copies of α1,2-fucosyltransferase (FutC) 
and by deleting the lon, wcaJ, lacZ, and lacI genes in the competitive pathways. 
Additionally, the 2'-FL titer was raised to 2.9 g/L by fusing a TrxA tag at the 
N-terminus of FutC, and then to 3.4 g/L by deleting glutathione reductase (Gor). 
Finally, the 2'-FL reached 3.3 g/L in the final strain E. coli MG27 through the 
de novo pathway in shake flask, and reached 10.3 g/L in a 3-L fermentor.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2022.126949
PMID: 35257882


661. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Dec;318:124069. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.124069. 
Epub 2020 Sep 3.

Production of 2-keto-L-gulonic acid by metabolically engineered Escherichia 
coli.

Zeng W(1), Wang P(2), Li N(3), Li J(1), Chen J(3), Zhou J(4).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; Science Center for 
Future Foods, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; 
Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(2)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; Key Laboratory of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of Biotechnology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; Jiangsu 
Provisional Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing Technology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(3)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; Science Center for 
Future Foods, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; 
Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; 
Jiangsu Provisional Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing Technology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(4)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; Science Center for 
Future Foods, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; 
Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; 
Jiangsu Provisional Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing Technology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China. Electronic 
address: zhoujw1982@jiangnan.edu.cn.

The 2-keto-L-gulonic acid (2-KLG) is the direct precursor for industrial vitamin 
C production. The main biosynthetic method for 2-KLG production is the classical 
two-step fermentation route. However, disadvantages of this method are emerging, 
including high consumption of energy, difficulties in strain screening, complex 
operation, and poor stability. In this study, five recombinant Escherichia coli 
strains overexpressing different sorbose/sorbosone dehydrogenases were 
constructed and used for 2-KLG production. By optimizing catalytic conditions 
and further expressing pyrroloquinoline quinone in the recombinant strain, the 
titer of 2-KLG reached 72.4 g/L, with a conversion ratio from L-sorbose of 71.2% 
in a 5-L bioreactor. To achieve direct biosynthesis of 2-KLG from D-sorbitol, a 
co-culture system consisting of Gluconobacter oxydans and recombinant E. coli 
was designed. With this co-culture system, 16.8 g/L of 2-KLG was harvested, with 
a conversion ratio from D-sorbitol of 33.6%. The approaches developed here 
provide alternative routes for the efficient biosynthesis of 2-KLG.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.124069
PMID: 32916460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 Aug;102(16):7007-7015. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-018-9141-z. Epub 2018 Jun 8.

Short, auto-inducible promoters for well-controlled protein expression in 
Escherichia coli.

Anilionyte O(1)(2), Liang H(1), Ma X(1), Yang L(1), Zhou K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore, 117585, Singapore.
(2)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Kingston University, London, UK.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore, 117585, Singapore. kang.zhou@nus.edu.sg.

Expression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli often requires use of 
inducible promoters to shorten the lag phase and improve protein productivity 
and final protein titer. Synthetic molecules that cannot be metabolized by E. 
coli, such as isopropyl thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), have been frequently used 
to trigger the protein expression during early exponential growth phase. This 
practice has many drawbacks, including high cost and toxicity of IPTG, complex 
operating procedure, and non-uniform protein expression pattern (some cells in 
the population do not express recombinant proteins). A few auto-inducible 
protein expression systems have been developed recently to overcome some of 
these limitations, but they required use of an additional plasmid or presence of 
large (a few kilobases) DNA part to be functional, making plasmid construction 
to be difficult, especially when multiple genes need to be expressed. In this 
study, by using RNA sequencing, we identified a short, endogenous promoter 
(PthrC) that can be auto-induced during early exponential growth phase, and 
improved its performance by use of native and mutated regulatory elements. We 
found that the developed mutants of PthrC drove uniform protein expression-close 
to 100% of cells were fluorescent when green fluorescence protein was used as 
target protein-and cells carrying them could achieve much higher cell density 
than those with T7 promoter (PT7), a commonly used inducible promoter. In terms 
of promoter strength (product protein quantity per cell), the developed promoter 
mutants can cover a range of strength, from 30 to 150% of maximal strength of 
PT7. One strong mutant (PthrC3_8) was found to work well at a large range of 
temperature (22, 30, 37 °C) and in various media, and was also confirmed to 
cause less stress to host cell than PT7 when they were used to express a toxic 
protein. We foresee that PthrC3 and its mutants will be useful genetic parts for 
various applications including metabolic engineering and biocatalysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-018-9141-z
PMID: 29948110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Mar;31(3):499-506. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-015-1806-5. Epub 2015 Jan 24.

mRNA secondary structure engineering of Thermobifida fusca endoglucanase (Cel6A) 
for enhanced expression in Escherichia coli.

Ali I(1), Asghar R, Ahmed S, Sajjad M, Tariq M, Waheed Akhtar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Mirpur University of Science and Technology 
(MUST), Mirpur, 10250, AJK, Pakistan, aliimran@must.edu.pk.

The sequence and structure of mRNA plays an important role in solubility and 
expression of the translated protein. To divulge the role of mRNA secondary 
structure and its thermodynamics in the expression level of the recombinant 
endoglucanase in Escherichia coli, 5'-end of the mRNA was thermodynamically 
optimized. Molecular engineering was done by introducing two silent synonymous 
mutations at positions +5 (UCU with UCC) and +7 (UUC with UUU) of the 5'-end of 
mRNA to relieve hybridization with ribosomal binding site. Two variants of 
glycoside hydrolase family six endoglucanase, wild type (cel6A.wt) and mutant 
(cel6A.mut) from Thermobifida fusca were expressed and characterized in E. coli 
using T7 promoter-based expression vector; pET22b(+). Enhanced expression level 
of engineered construct (Cel6A.mut) with ∆G = -2.7 kcal mol(-1)was observed. It 
showed up to ~45 % higher expression as compared to the wild type construct 
(Cel6A.wt) having ∆G = -7.8 kcal mol(-1) and ~25 % expression to the total cell 
proteins. Heterologous protein was purified by heating the recombinant E. coli 
BL21 (DE3) CodonPlus at 60 °C. The optimum pH for enzyme activity was six and 
optimum temperature was 60 °C. Maximum activity was observed 4.5 Umg(-1) on CMC. 
Hydrolytic activity was also observed on insoluble substrates, i.e. RAC (2.8 
Umg(-1)), alkali treated bagass (1.7 Umg(-1)), filter paper (1.2 Umg(-1)) and 
BMCC (0.3 Umg(-1)). Metal ions affect endoglucanase activity in different ways. 
Only Fe(2+) exhibited 20.8 % stimulatory effects on enzyme activity. Enzyme 
activity was profoundly inhibited by Hg2(+) (91.8 %).

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-015-1806-5
PMID: 25617066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2021 May 11;19(1):70. doi: 10.1186/s43141-021-00172-9.

Production of polyclonal antibody against the recombinant PirB(vp) protein of 
Vibrio parahaemolyticus.

Duong ND(#)(1)(2)(3), Nguyen-Phuoc KH(#)(1)(2), Do KT(3), Nguyen NT(3), Tran 
TL(1)(2), Tran-Van H(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Science, 227 Nguyen Van Cu Street, Ward 4, District 5, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam.
(2)Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(3)Pasteur Institute, 167 Pasteur Street, Vo Thi Sau Ward, District 3, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam.
(4)University of Science, 227 Nguyen Van Cu Street, Ward 4, District 5, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam. tvhieu@hcmus.edu.vn.
(5)Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. tvhieu@hcmus.edu.vn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (AHPND) is caused by 
toxin-producing strains of Vibrio parahaemolyticus which contain deadly binary 
toxins PirAvp and PirBvp encoded in pVA1 plasmid. The polyclonal antibodies 
against PirBvp protein could be used to develop immunochromatographic test strip 
for in-field diagnosis of AHPND.
RESULTS: In this study, PirBvp gene was amplified, cloned, and expressed in E. 
coli. The expressed protein was detected by sodium dodecyl 
sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blot probed 
with 6xHis antibodies. Then, the recombinant PirBvp (rPirBvp) was purified using 
Ni-Sepharose column. Rabbits were immunized with the purified rPirBvp, and 
produced antibodies were analyzed using Ouchterlony double immunodiffusion. The 
antibody titration and antibody purification were performed by ELISA and 
affinity chromatography, respectively. Finally, antibody specificity and 
sensitivity were evaluated by dot blotting. The present study showed a high 
titer of polyclonal antibodies in rabbit serum after immunization and the titer 
increased steadily during the immunization schedule. The highest titer of 
antibody reached up to 2,560,000 with LOD of 0.1 ng/mL. The purified antibodies 
showed no cross-reactivity with proteins from other Vibrio species, and the 
detection threshold ranged from 6.25 to 12.5 ng toxin/dot.
CONCLUSION: This study highlights the production of high titer and specific 
polyclonal antibodies as an initial material towards the development of 
lateral-flow strip test.

DOI: 10.1186/s43141-021-00172-9
PMCID: PMC8113428
PMID: 33977321

Conflict of interest statement: We declare that we have no competing interests.


665. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2006 Feb;14(2):101-4.

[Cloning, prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of HCCR: a 
new biomarker for hepatocellular carcinoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Xia JB(1), Zhang ZH, Tian YJ, Meng ZJ, Yu ZQ, Zhao XP, Yang DL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology, Tongji Hospital of Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

OBJECTIVES: To construct a prokaryotic plasmid expressing truncated human 
cervical cancer oncogene (HCCR-1(167-360)), to express and purify the 
recombinant protein, and to develop the polyclonal antibody against HCCR.
METHODS: HCCR-1(167-360) was amplified by RT-PCR from HepG2 cells and cloned 
into vector pRSET-B, then expressed in E.coli BL21(DE3) pLysS, which was induced 
by IPTG. The recombinant protein was purified using Ni-NTA spin column and 
acrylamide gel electrophoresis. A polyclonal antibody was developed by 
immunizing BALB/c mice with the purified recombinant protein, and their 
sensitivity and specificity were tested using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, 
immunohistochemical staining and Western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Recombinant plasmid expressing truncated HCCR-1167-360 was constructed. 
A protein of 2.70 x 10(4) was successfully expressed and purified. High titer 
polyclonal antibody with a high specificity was obtained by immunizing BALB/c 
mice with the purified recombinant protein.
CONCLUSIONS: The truncated recombinant HCCR-1(167-360) developed in this study 
is highly purified and shows strong antigenecity; the polyclonal antibody 
against this HCCR protein was generated by regular immunization method, showing 
both high sensitivity and specificity. The protein and the antibody can be used 
for further clinical examination and research of HCCR.

PMID: 16494777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Metab Eng. 2018 Jul;48:208-217. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2018.05.009. Epub 2018 May 
21.

Engineering the production of dipicolinic acid in E. coli.

McClintock MK(1), Fahnhorst GW(2), Hoye TR(2), Zhang K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of 
Minnesota, 421 Washington Ave. SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Minnesota, 207 Pleasant St. SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.

Dicarboxylic acids, such as the phthalic acids and their derivatives, are 
monomeric components in several important polyesters and polyamides. In most 
cases, these compounds are derived from fossil fuels and are not easily 
biodegradable. Dipicolinic acid (DPA) is a biologically derived aromatic di-acid 
that has a similar structure to isophthalic acid. Furthermore, DPA has been 
shown to give rise to polyesters, is readily biodegradable, and is non-toxic. 
DPA is naturally produced by Bacillus and Clostridium species during sporulation 
and can comprise up to 15% of the dry weight of bacterial spores. In this paper 
we demonstrate the first heterologous production of DPA and identify the genes 
appropriate for gram-scale production in the industrial workhorse organism, E. 
coli. Initially, several combinations of genes from the lysine pathway, 
including lysC, asd, dapA, and dapB, were overexpressed to determine which genes 
are necessary for recombinant production in E. coli. The in vitro activity of 
dipicolinate synthase was then compared between Bacillus subtilis and 
Clostridium perfringens. Next, in order to improve DPA production from glucose, 
an optimized strain was created that lacked several genes (lysA, tdh, and metA), 
resulting in 5.21 g/L DPA when 5 g/L of aspartate was supplied. Then, several 
aspartate kinases and dipicolinate synthases were screened for optimal activity 
in E. coli. The optimal genes were combined with the overexpression of 
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase to develop a full biosynthetic pathway capable 
of producing a titer of 4.7 g/L DPA directly from glucose. In summary, we have 
performed a detailed biochemical study of the key pathway enzyme dipicolinate 
synthase and achieved scalable heterogeneous production of DPA in the workhorse 
organism E. coli.

Copyright © 2018 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2018.05.009
PMID: 29792931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. J Biotechnol. 2006 Feb 10;121(3):291-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2005.08.006. Epub 
2005 Sep 15.

Improved solubility of TEV protease by directed evolution.

van den Berg S(1), Löfdahl PA, Härd T, Berglund H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institute, SE 
171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

The efficiency and high specificity of tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease has 
made it widely used for cleavage of recombinant fusion proteins. However, the 
production of TEV protease in E. coli is hampered by low solubility. We have 
subjected the gene encoding TEV protease to directed evolution to improve the 
yield of soluble protein. Libraries of mutated genes obtained by error-prone PCR 
and gene shuffling were introduced into the Gateway cloning system for 
facilitated transfer between vectors for screening, purification, or other 
applications. Fluorescence based in vivo solubility screening was carried out by 
cloning the libraries into a plasmid encoding a C-terminal GFP fusion. Mutant 
genes giving rise to high GFP fluorescence intensity indicating high levels of 
soluble TEV-GFP were subsequently transferred to a vector providing a C-terminal 
histidine tag for expression, purification, and activity tests of mutated TEV. 
We identified a mutant, TEV(SH), in which three amino acid substitutions result 
in a five-fold increase in the yield of purified protease with retained 
activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2005.08.006
PMID: 16150509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Metab Eng. 2016 Mar;34:104-111. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.01.001. Epub 2016 Jan 
11.

Functional balance between enzymes in malonyl-CoA pathway for 
3-hydroxypropionate biosynthesis.

Liu C(1), Ding Y(2), Zhang R(3), Liu H(3), Xian M(4), Zhao G(5).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Lab of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266101, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Institute of Oceanology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266071, China.
(3)CAS Key Lab of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266101, China.
(4)CAS Key Lab of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266101, China. 
Electronic address: xianmo@qibebt.ac.cn.
(5)CAS Key Lab of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266101, China. 
Electronic address: zhaoguang@qibebt.ac.cn.

3-Hydroxypropionate (3HP) is an important platform chemical, and four 3HP 
biosynthetic routes were reported, in which the malonyl-CoA pathway has some 
expected advantages but presented the lowest 3HP yield. Here, we demonstrated 
that this low yield was caused by a serious functional imbalance between MCR-C 
and MCR-N proteins, responsible for the two-step reduction of malonyl-CoA to 
3HP. Then we minimized the enzyme activity imbalance by directed evolution of 
rate-limiting enzyme MCR-C and fine tuning of MCR-N expression level. Combined 
with culture conditions optimization, our engineering approaches increased the 
3HP titer 270-fold, from 0.15 g/L to 40.6 g/L, representing the highest 3HP 
production via malonyl-CoA pathway so far. This study not only significantly 
improved the 3HP productivity of recombinant Escherichia coli strain, but also 
proved the importance of metabolic balance in a multistep biosynthetic pathway, 
which should be always considered in any metabolic engineering study.

Copyright © 2016 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.01.001
PMID: 26791242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Jul;183:105862. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105862. Epub 
2021 Mar 12.

Purification and characterization of an Fe(II)- and α-ketoglutarate-dependent 
xanthine hydroxylase from Aspergillus oryzae.

Bocanegra-Jiménez FY(1), Montero-Morán GM(2), Lara-González S(3).

Author information:
(1)IPICYT, División de Biología Molecular, Instituto Potosino de Investigación 
Científica y Tecnológica A. C., San Luis Potosí, SLP, Mexico.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Químicas, Laboratorio IBCM, Universidad Autónoma de San 
Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí, SLP, Mexico.
(3)IPICYT, División de Biología Molecular, Instituto Potosino de Investigación 
Científica y Tecnológica A. C., San Luis Potosí, SLP, Mexico. Electronic 
address: samuel.lara@ipicyt.edu.mx.

XanA is an FeII- and α-ketoglutarate-dependent enzyme responsible for the 
conversion of xanthine to uric acid. It is unique to fungi and it was first 
described in Aspergillus nidulans. In this work, we present the preliminary 
characterization of the XanA enzyme from Aspergillus oryzae, a relevant fungus 
in food production in Japan. The XanA protein (GenBank BAE56701.1) was expressed 
as a recombinant protein in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) Arctic cells. Initial 
purification assays showed low protein solubility; therefore, the buffer 
composition was optimized using a fluorescence-based thermal shift assay. The 
protein was stabilized in solution in the presence of either 600 μM xanthine, 
1 M NaCl, 600 μM α-ketoglutarate or 20% glycerol, which increases the melting 
temperature (Tm) by 2, 4, 5 and 6 °C respectively. The XanA protein was purified 
by following a three-step purification protocol. The nickel affinity purified 
protein was subjected to ion-exchange chromatography once the N-terminal 
6XHis-tag had been successfully removed, followed by size-exclusion 
purification. Dynamic light scattering experiments showed that the purified 
protein was monodisperse and behaved as a monomer in solution. Preliminary 
activity assays in the presence of xanthine, α-ketoglutarate, and iron suggest 
that the enzyme is an iron- and α-ketoglutarate-dependent xanthine dioxygenase. 
Furthermore, the enzyme's optimum activity conditions were determined to be 
25 °C, pH of 7.2, HEPES buffer, and 1% of glycerol. In conclusion, we 
established the conditions to purify the XanA enzyme from A. oryzae in its 
active form from E. coli bacteria and determined the optimal activity 
conditions.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105862
PMID: 33716123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jul;48(1):142-50. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.01.021. Epub 
2006 Feb 20.

Two methods for improved purification of full-length mammalian proteins that 
have poor expression and/or solubility using standard Escherichia coli 
procedures.

Geng J(1), Carstens RP.

Author information:
(1)Renal-Electrolyte and Hypertension Division, Department of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19014, USA.

Many mammalian proteins are multifunctional proteins with biological activities 
whose characterization often requires in vitro studies. However, these studies 
depend on generation of sufficient quantities of recombinant protein and many 
mammalian proteins cannot be easily expressed and purified as full-length 
products. One example is the Wilm's tumor gene product, WT1, which has proven 
difficult to express as a full-length purified recombinant protein using 
standard approaches. To facilitate expression of full-length WT1 we have 
developed approaches that optimized its expression and purification in 
Escherichia coli and mammalian cells. First, using a bicistronic vector system, 
we successfully expressed and purified WT1 containing a C-terminal tandem 
affinity tag in 293T cells. Second, using a specific strain of E. coli 
transformed with a modified GST vector, we successfully expressed and purified 
N-terminal GST tagged and C-terminal 2x FLAG tagged full-length human WT1. The 
benefits of these approaches include: (1) two-step affinity purification to 
allow high quality of protein purification, (2) large soluble tags that can be 
used for a first affinity purification step, but then conveniently removed with 
the highly site-specific TEV protease, and (3) the use of non-denaturing 
purification and elution conditions that are predicted to preserve native 
protein conformation and function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.01.021
PMID: 16529945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Biotechnol Lett. 2005 Aug;27(15):1067-73. doi: 10.1007/s10529-005-8451-2.

Signal peptide does not inhibit binding of biotin to streptavidin.

Liu X(1), Liu J.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences & Technology, Shanghai Jiaotong University, 1954 
Hua-Shan Road, 200030, Shanghai, China.

Three recombinant polypeptides of streptavidin: the full-length streptavidin 
with a signal peptide (rsavS), full-length streptavidin (rsavF) and core 
streptavidin (rsavC), were expressed in E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) and purified 
by Ni-NTA chromatography. Although all three recombinant streptavidins had 
biotin-binding activity, the stability and solubility of rsavC tetraunits were 
much better than those of rsavS and rsavF, indicating that signal peptide and/or 
extra amino acid residues in rsavS and rsavF have negative effects on 
streptavidin. Meanwhile, the signal peptide and extra amino acid residues in 
rsavS and rsavF made it difficult for polypeptides to fold into functional 
proteins. After refolding of denaturing-purified proteins in vitro, both the 
specific activities and biotin binding sites of renatured streptavidins were 
1.4-times as that of proteins obtained by native Ni-NTA purification. Because 
the denaturing-purified rsavC is easy of refolding into functional protein, the 
better strategy for production of active rsavC is to isolate the protein from 
IPTG-induced E. coli extracts by denaturing Ni-NTA affinity chromatography 
followed by refolding of purified polypeptide in vitro.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-005-8451-2
PMID: 16132855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Mol Med Rep. 2013 Nov;8(5):1460-4. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1701. Epub 2013 Sep 24.

Generation and characterization of a polyclonal antibody against human high 
mobility group box 4.

Yang F(1), Li R, Hong A, Duan F, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, P.R. China.

A human high mobility group box 4 (hHMGB4) expression construct (pET‑28a/hHMGB4) 
was generated by cloning the hHMGB4 full‑length cDNA in the expression vector 
pET‑28a(+). The hHMGB4 fusion protein with His6‑Tag was prepared using E.coli 
BL21 (DE3) transformed with pET‑28a/hHMGB4 and purified via preparative SDS‑PAGE 
plus electroelution. Immunization of rabbits with the purified hHMGB4 generated 
polyclonal antibodies. The titer of the antiserum was determined to be 1:102,400 
by ELISA analysis. Western blotting analysis showed that the antibody 
specifically recognized the recombinant hHMGB4 protein and also the endogenous 
hHMGB4 protein in prostate cancer cells. In addition, immunohistochemical 
staining analysis using the prepared antibody revealed marked hHMGB4 staining in 
the nuclei of the human prostate tissue. These data demonstrate that the 
anti‑hHMGB4 polyclonal antibody may be a useful reagent for the functional study 
of hHMGB4.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1701
PMID: 24064722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Biomed Khim. 2018 Jan;64(1):53-60. doi: 10.18097/PBMC20186401053.

[Construction and characterization of a recombinant mutant homolog of the CheW 
protein from Thermotoga petrophila RKU-1].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Grishin DV(1), Zhdanov DD(1), Gladilina JA(1), Pokrovsky VS(1), Podobed OV(1), 
Pokrovskaya MV(1), Aleksandrova SS(1), Milyushkina AL(1), Vigovskiy MA(1), 
Sokolov NN(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Chemistry, Moscow, Russia.

In the work a recombinant chemotaxis protein CheW from Thermotoga petrophila 
RKU-1 (TpeCheW) and its mutant homolog (TpeCheW-mut) were created. It was shown 
that, despite the low homology with CheW prototypes from intestinal bacteria, 
these proteins didn't cause metabolic overload and were well expressed by cells 
of E. coli laboratory strains. We have discovered a broad spectrum of industrial 
valuable properties of the TpeCheW-mut protein such as stability in a wide range 
of temperatures and pH, high expression level, solubility and possibility of the 
application of a simple low-stage purification methodology with the use of 
preliminary heat treatment. Possible directions of the scientific and industrial 
application of this protein were claimed.

Publisher: V rabote polucheny rekombinantnyĭ khemotaksisnyĭ belok CheW 
Thermotoga petrophila RKU-1 (TpeCheW) i ego mutantnyĭ gomolog (TpeCheW-mut). 
Pokazano, chto, nesmotria na nevysokuiu gomologiiu s CheW bakteriĭ gruppy 
kishechnoĭ palochki, dannye belki ne vyzyvaiut metabolicheskoĭ peregruzki i 
khorosho ékspressiruiutsia kletkami laboratornykh shtammov E. coli. Vyiavlen 
shirokiĭ spektr vazhnykh dlia vydeleniia belka TpeCheW-mut svoĭstv i parametrov, 
takikh kak stabil'nost' v shirokom diapazone temperatur i znacheniĭ rN, vysokiĭ 
uroven' ékspressii, rastvorimost', a takzhe vozmozhnost' primeneniia prostykh 
malostadiĭnykh skhem ochistki, vkliuchaia termoobrabotku. Sformulirovany i 
obosnovany vozmozhnye napravleniia ispol'zovaniia dannogo belka v praktike 
nauchnykh i prikladnykh issledovaniĭ.

DOI: 10.18097/PBMC20186401053
PMID: 29460835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. PLoS One. 2016 May 26;11(5):e0156286. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156286. 
eCollection 2016.

Production of 3-Hydroxypropionic Acid via the Propionyl-CoA Pathway Using 
Recombinant Escherichia coli Strains.

Luo H(1), Zhou D(1), Liu X(1), Nie Z(2)(3), Quiroga-Sánchez DL(1), Chang 
Y(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Engineering, University of Science and 
Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China.
(2)Department of Environmental Engineering, University of Science and Technology 
Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Educational Ministry for High Efficient Mining and Safety 
in Metal Mine, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, 
China.

Our study aimed to produce the commercially promising platform chemical 
3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) via the propionyl-CoA pathway in genetically 
engineered Escherichia coli. Recombinant E. coli Ec-P overexpressing 
propionyl-CoA dehydrogenase (PACD, encoded by the pacd gene from Candida rugosa) 
under the T7 promoter produced 1.33 mM of 3-HP in a shake flask culture 
supplemented with 0.5% propionate. When propionate CoA-transferase (PCT, encoded 
by the pct gene from Megasphaera elsdenii) and 3-hydroxypropionyl-CoA 
dehydratase (HPCD, encoded by the hpcd gene from Chloroflexus aurantiacus) were 
expressed along with PACD, the 3-HP titer of the resulting E. coli Ec-PPH strain 
was improved by 6-fold. The effect of the cultivation conditions on the 3-HP 
yield from propionate in the Ec-PPH strain was also investigated. When cultured 
at 30°C with 1% glucose in addition to propionate, 3-HP production by Ec-PPH 
increased 2-fold and 12-fold compared to the cultivation at 37°C (4.23 mM) or 
without glucose (0.68 mM). Deletion of the ygfH gene encoding propionyl-CoA: 
succinate CoA-transferase from Ec-PPH (resulting in the strain Ec-△Y-PPH) led to 
increase of 3-HP production in shake flask experiments (15.04 mM), whereas the 
strain Ec-△Y-PPH with deletion of the prpC gene (encoding methylcitrate synthase 
in the methylcitrate cycle) produced 17.76 mM of 3-HP. The strain Ec-△Y-△P-PPH 
with both ygfH and prpC genes deleted produced 24.14 mM of 3-HP, thus showing an 
18-fold increase in the 3-HP titer in compare to the strain Ec-P.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156286
PMCID: PMC4882031
PMID: 27227837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


675. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Jun;98(11):4887-95. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-014-5582-1. Epub 2014 Feb 18.

Recombinant production of a single-chain antibody fragment in Pseudoalteromonas 
haloplanktis TAC125.

Giuliani M(1), Parrilli E, Sannino F, Apuzzo GA, Marino G, Tutino ML.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chimiche, Università di Napoli "Federico II", Via 
Cinthia, 4, 80126, Naples, Italy, maria.giuliani@ymail.com.

Recombinant protein production in cold-adapted bacteria has proved to be a 
valuable option to overcome solubility concerns often came up in conventional 
expression hosts. ScFvs are examples of "difficult proteins" due to their 
tendency to form inclusion bodies when expressed in Escherichia coli. In this 
paper, the recombinant production of a single-chain antibody (ScFvOx) in the 
psychrophilic bacterium Pseudoalteromonas haloplanktis TAC125 is reported. The 
expression vector for the ScFvOx production was designed to address the 
recombinant protein in the periplasmic space and to allow the formation of the 
antibody disulphide bonds. For periplasmic export, two different export 
mechanisms were evaluated. By combining the genetic tools available for 
recombinant protein expression in psychrophilic hosts with an ad hoc medium and 
fermentation modality and optimised expression conditions at low temperatures, 
we obtained the highest yield of soluble and epitope-binding ScFvOx reported so 
far by conventional prokaryotic expression. The observed proficiency of the 
Antarctic bacterium to produce recombinant antibody fragments was related to the 
unusually high number of genes encoding peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerases 
found in P. haloplanktis TAC125 genome, making this bacterium the host of choice 
for the recombinant production of this protein class.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-014-5582-1
PMID: 24535258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Biosci Bioeng. 2019 Mar;127(3):301-308. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.08.013. 
Epub 2018 Oct 25.

Metabolome analysis revealed the knockout of glyoxylate shunt as an effective 
strategy for improvement of 1-butanol production in transgenic Escherichia coli.

Nitta K(1), Laviña WA(2), Pontrelli S(3), Liao JC(4), Putri SP(5), Fukusaki 
E(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka 
University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. Electronic address: 
katsuaki_nitta@bio.eng.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka 
University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan; Department of 
Microbiology, Institute of Biological Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, 
University of the Philippines Los Baños, College, 4031 Laguna, Philippines. 
Electronic address: walavina@up.edu.ph.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of 
California, Los Angeles, 5531 Boelter Hall, 420 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA. Electronic address: sppontrelli@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of 
California, Los Angeles, 5531 Boelter Hall, 420 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA. Electronic address: liaoj@ucla.edu.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka 
University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. Electronic address: 
sastia_putri@bio.eng.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka 
University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. Electronic address: 
fukusaki@bio.eng.osaka-u.ac.jp.

High 1-butanol titer has been achieved in a transgenic Escherichia coli strain 
JCL299FT with a heterologous 1-butanol pathway by deleting competing pathways, 
balancing of cofactor and resolving free CoA imbalance. However, further 
improvement of 1-butanol production is still possible in the highest producing 
strain JCL299FT as indicated by the accumulation of acetate, a major undesired 
by-product during bio-production by microorganisms that competes with 1-butanol 
production for the available acetyl-CoA and inhibits protein synthesis resulting 
in poor growth. In this study, liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry 
(LC/MS/MS)-based metabolome analysis was performed to identify new rate limiting 
steps in the 1-butanol production pathway of E. coli strain JCL299FT. The 
results of metabolome analysis showed increased amounts of glyoxylate in 
JCL299FT compared to the previous highest-producing strain JCL299F. Knocking out 
aceA successfully decreased the amount of glyoxylate and reduced acetate 
accumulation, resulting in the increased levels of TCA cycle and 1-butanol 
pathway metabolites. These observations indicated that there was a redirection 
of flux from acetate to TCA cycle and 1-butanol producing pathway, which led to 
better growth of the 1-butanol producing strain. Consequently, 1-butanol 
production titer was improved by 39% and the production yield was improved by 
12% in M9 medium supplemented with yeast extract. This study is the first report 
of using the knockout of aceA, the first gene in the glyoxylate shunt that 
encodes isocitrate lyase, as an effective strategy to reduce acetate overflow in 
1-butanol producing E. coli.

Copyright © 2018 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.08.013
PMID: 30482596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Fen Zi Xi Bao Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2009 Feb;42(1):35-42.

[EoRab43 regulating vesicular transport around the macronucleus in Euplotes 
octocarinatus].

[Article in Chinese]

Li JJ(1), Nie Y, Liaing AH, Dang XH, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Molecular Engineering of Ministry of 
Education, Institute of Biotechnology, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, China.

Rab family proteins play a crucial role in regulating vesicular traffic in 
eukaryotic cells. EoRab43 is an atypical Rab gene identified in Euplotes 
octocarinatus. In order to understand the function of EoRab43, the 153bp 
fragment of the 3'-end of EoRab43 gene was subcloned into expression vector 
pGEX-6P-1, and the recombinant plasmid pGEX-EoRab43(153bp) was transfered into 
E.coli BL21 (DE3) to express the fusion protein. The fusion protein GST-EoRab43C 
was expressed and purified by affinity chromatography. BALB/c mice were 
immunolized by purified GST-EoRab43C. The titer of anti-EoRab43C polyclonal 
antibody was detected by indirect ELISA assay and the specificity of the 
antibody was detected by Western blot. Immunofluorescence experiments were 
performed using anti-EoRab43C antibody in the cells of Euplotes. The results 
showed that EoRab43 displayed a punctuate pattern in the cytoplasm around the 
macronuclear chromosome of Euplotes.

PMID: 19306687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2021 May;105(9):3587-3599. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-021-11275-1. Epub 2021 Apr 27.

Engineering the Cad pathway in Escherichia coli to produce glutarate from 
L-lysine.

Wang J(1)(2), Gao C(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Liu L(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(2)International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 
214122, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, China. mingll@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(4)International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 
214122, China. mingll@jiangnan.edu.cn.

For the efficient industrial production of glutarate, an important C5 platform 
chemical that is widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, a 
five-enzyme cascade pathway was designed and reconstructed in vitro to 
synthesize glutarate from L-lysine. Then, the imbalanced enzyme expression 
levels of L-lysine decarboxylase from Escherichia coli (EcCA), putrescine 
aminotransferase (KpcPA) and γ-aminovaleraldehyde dehydrogenase (KpcPD) from 
Klebsiella pneumoniae, and the poor catalytic efficiency of KpcPA were 
identified as the rate-limiting bottlenecks. To this end, ribosome binding site 
regulation was employed to coordinate the enzyme molar ratio of EcCA:KpcPA:KpcPD 
at approximately 4:8:7 (the optimum ratio obtained in vitro), and volume 
scanning and hydrophobicity scanning were applied to increase KpcPA activity 
toward cadaverine from 15.89 ± 0.52 to 75.87 ± 1.51 U·mg-1. Furthermore, the 
extracellular accumulation of 5-aminovalerate (5AVA) was considerably reduced by 
overexpressing gabP encoding the 5AVA importer. Combining these strategies into 
the engineered strain Glu-02, 77.62 g/L glutarate, the highest titer by E. coli 
to date, was produced from 100 g/L L-lysine in 42 h, with a yield and 
productivity of 0.78 g/g L-lysine and 1.85 g/L/h, respectively, at a 5-L scale. 
The results presented here provide a novel and potential enzymatic process at 
industrial-scale to produce glutarate from cheaper amino acids. KEY POINTS: • 
The bioconversion of l-lysine to glutarate using the Cad pathway was first 
achieved. • Enhancing the conversion efficiency of the Cad route maximizes 
glutarate in E. coli. • Achieving the highest titer of glutarate by E. coli to 
date.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-021-11275-1
PMID: 33907891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2010 Oct 
30;28(5):339-42.

[Cloning, expression and immunologic identification of Eg10 gene of Echinococcus 
granulosus].

[Article in Chinese]

Du J(1), Zhang W, Wang YN, Wang J, Wang SJ, Zhang Y, Gao P, Li JY, Zhao W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express Eg10 gene of Echinococcus granulosus, and 
investigate the immunological characteristic of the recombinant.
METHODS: Eg10 gene was subcloned into pET28a vector. The recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into E. coli BL21 and induced with IPTG. The recombinant protein was 
purified with His-bind purification kit. Forty-eight mice were randomly divided 
into 4 groups. Mice in groups A and B were injected with PBS and PBS+Freund's 
adjuvant (100 microl) as control. Mice in groups C and D were immunized with 10 
mg and 50 microg purified Eg10 antigen formulated in Freund's adjuvant, 
respectively. All the mice received three immunizations at 2-week intervals with 
the same dose of antigen. Serum samples were collected at pre-immunization and 
certain time after immunization. The immunological characteristics of 
recombinant Eg10 was analyzed by Western blotting and ELISA.
RESULTS: The recombinant Eg10 protein (Mr 31 000) was expressed in E. coli BL21. 
The recombinant Eg10 and expression product of PET28a/Eg10 were recognized by 
sera from mice immunized with recombinant Eg10. ELISA showed that the titer of 
IgG reached a peak at the 8th week in groups C and D, the level of IgG in sera 
of groups C or D was higher than that of groups A or B (P < 0.05) at the 2nd, 
4th, 6th, 8th, and 10th week. There was no significant difference in the level 
of IgG between group C and group D (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The Eg10 gene has been expressed with immunogenicity.

PMID: 21351544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2015 Jul;176(6):1687-99. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-015-1670-7. Epub 2015 Jun 11.

Soluble Expression of (+)-γ-Lactamase in Bacillus subtilis for the 
Enantioselective Preparation of Abacavir Precursor.

Xue TY(1), Xu GC, Han RZ, Ni Y.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China.

Chiral Vince lactam (γ-lactam) is an important precursor of many carbocyclic 
nucleoside analogues and pharmaceuticals. Here, a (+)-γ-lactamase encoding gene 
delm from Delftia sp. CGMCC 5755 was identified through genome hunting. To 
achieve its soluble and functional expression, Escherichia coli and Bacillus 
subtilis expression systems were introduced. Compared with E. coli system, 
recombinant (+)-γ-lactamase showed improved protein solubility and catalytic 
activity in B. subtilis 168. Reaction conditions for enantioselective resolution 
of γ-lactam were optimized to be at 30 °C, pH 9.0, and 300 rpm when employing 
the recombinant B. subtilis 168/pMA5-delm whole cells. Kinetic analysis showed 
that the apparent V max and K m were 0.595 mmol/(min · gDCW) and 378 mmol/L, 
respectively. No obvious substrate inhibition was observed. In a 500-mL reaction 
system, enantioselective resolution of 100 g/L γ-lactam was achieved with 10 g/L 
dry cells, resulting in 55.2 % conversion and 99 % ee of (-)-γ-lactam. All above 
suggested that recombinant B. subtilis 168/pMA5-delm could potentially be 
applied in the preparation of optically pure (-)-γ-lactam.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-015-1670-7
PMID: 26062919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Metab Eng. 2015 Mar;28:104-113. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2014.12.005. Epub 2014 Dec 
24.

Dynamic knockdown of E. coli central metabolism for redirecting fluxes of 
primary metabolites.

Brockman IM(1), Prather KLJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. Electronic address: kljp@mit.edu.

Control of native enzyme levels is important when optimizing strains for 
overproduction of heterologous compounds. However, for many central metabolic 
enzymes, static knockdown results in poor growth and protein expression. We have 
developed a strategy for dynamically modulating the abundance of native enzymes 
within the host cell and applied this to a model system for myo-inositol 
production from glucose. This system relies on controlled degradation of a key 
glycolytic enzyme, phosphofructokinase-I (Pfk-I). Through tuning Pfk-I levels, 
we have been able to develop an Escherichia coli strain with a growth mode close 
to wild type and a production mode with an increased glucose-6-phosphate pool 
available for conversion into myo-inositol. The switch to production mode is 
trigged by inducer addition, allowing yield, titer, and productivity to be 
managed through induction time. By varying the time of Pfk-I degradation, we 
were able to achieve a two-fold improvement in yield and titers of myo-inositol.

Copyright © 2014 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2014.12.005
PMCID: PMC4355230
PMID: 25542851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Metab Eng. 2010 Mar;12(2):150-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2009.07.006. Epub 2009 
Jul 29.

Application of dynamic flux balance analysis to an industrial Escherichia coli 
fermentation.

Meadows AL(1), Karnik R, Lam H, Forestell S, Snedecor B.

Author information:
(1)Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA. 
adameadows@gmail.com

We have developed a reactor-scale model of Escherichia coli metabolism and 
growth in a 1000 L process for the production of a recombinant therapeutic 
protein. The model consists of two distinct parts: (1) a dynamic, process 
specific portion that describes the time evolution of 37 process variables of 
relevance and (2) a flux balance based, 123-reaction metabolic model of E. coli 
metabolism. This model combines several previously reported modeling approaches 
including a growth rate-dependent biomass composition, maximum growth rate 
objective function, and dynamic flux balancing. In addition, we introduce 
concentration-dependent boundary conditions of transport fluxes, dynamic 
maintenance demands, and a state-dependent cellular objective. This formulation 
was able to describe specific runs with high-fidelity over process conditions 
including rich media, simultaneous acetate and glucose consumption, glucose 
minimal media, and phosphate depleted media. Furthermore, the model accurately 
describes the effect of process perturbations--such as glucose overbatching and 
insufficient aeration--on growth, metabolism, and titer.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2009.07.006
PMID: 19646545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Mar;107:68-75. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.006. Epub 
2014 Nov 21.

Efficient in vitro refolding and functional characterization of recombinant 
human liver carboxylesterase (CES1) expressed in E. coli.

Boonyuen U(1), Promnares K(2), Junkree S(3), Day NP(4), Imwong M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Tropical Medicine and Genetics, Faculty of Tropical 
Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand. Electronic address: 
usa.boo@mahidol.ac.th.
(2)Department of Molecular Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Faculty of Science, 
Prince of Songkla University, Hat Yai, Songkla 90112, Thailand. Electronic 
address: kamoltip.p@psu.ac.th.
(3)Central Equipment Unit, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, 
Bangkok 10400, Thailand. Electronic address: suwapat.jun@mahidol.ac.th.
(4)Mahidol Oxford Research Unit, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand; Centre for Tropical Medicine, Nuffield 
Department of Medicine, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: nickd@tropmedres.ac.
(5)Department of Molecular Tropical Medicine and Genetics, Faculty of Tropical 
Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand. Electronic address: 
noi@tropmedres.ac.

Human liver carboxylesterase 1 (CES1) plays a critical role in the hydrolysis of 
various ester- and amide-containing molecules, including active metabolites, 
drugs and prodrugs. However, it has been problematic to express recombinant CES1 
in bacterial expression systems due to low solubility, with the CES1 protein 
being mainly expressed in inclusion bodies, accompanied by insufficient purity 
issues. In this study, we report an efficient in vitro method for refolding 
recombinant CES1 from inclusion bodies. A one-step purification with an 
immobilized-metal affinity column was utilized to purify His-tagged recombinant 
CES1. Conveniently, both denaturant and imidazole can be removed while the 
enzyme is refolded via buffer exchange, a dilution method. We show that the 
refolding of recombinant CES1 was successful in Tris-HCl at pH 7.5 containing a 
combination of 1% glycerol and 2 mM β-mercaptoethanol, whereas a mixture of 
other additives (trehalose, sorbitol and sucrose) and β-mercaptoethanol failed 
to recover a functional protein. His-tagged recombinant CES1 retains its 
biological activity after refolding and can be used directly without removing 
the fusion tag. Altogether, our results provide an alternative method for 
obtaining a substantial amount of functionally active protein, which is 
advantageous for further investigations such as structural and functional 
studies.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.006
PMCID: PMC4294421
PMID: 25462813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2009 Nov;29(11):2175-8.

[Prokaryotic expression, purification of human LINGO-1(aa76-319) and preparation 
of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Lv J(1), Lu X, Jiang XD, Hu CC, Cai YQ, DU MX, Zou YX, Qin LS.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery Institute of Guangdong Province, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou 510282, China. lvjun0000@126.com

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify the fusion protein of extracellular domain of 
human Ig domain-containing, neurite outgrowth inhibitor (Nogo) 
receptor-interacting protein-1 (LINGO-1(aa76-319)) in prokaryotic cells and 
prepare the rabbit anti-LINGO-1 polyclonal antibody (pAb).
METHODS: The 732 bp DNA sequence of hLINGO-1(aa76-319) was obtained from 
pCMV-SPORT6 by PCR and inserted into pET30a(+) plasmid to construct the 
prokaryotic expression plasmid pET30a(+)-hLINGO-1(aa76-319), which was 
subsequently transformed into E.coli. The target fusion protein was expressed 
with IPTG induction and purified by Ni(2+)-NTA affinity chromatography column. 
The antiserum against hLINGO-1(aa76-319) was obtained from the rabbits immunized 
with hLINGO-1(aa76-319), and the titer of the pAb was determined using enzyme 
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and its specificity identified using Western 
blotting.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression plasmid pET30a(+)-hLINGO-1(aa76-319) was 
constructed successfully. Efficient expression of the target fusion protein was 
achieved with IPTG induction at the optimal concentration of 0.4 mmol/L and 
culture temperature at 37 degrees celsius; for 2.5 h. The hLINGO-1(aa76-319) 
fusion protein was effectively expressed in E.coli as inclusion bodies, and the 
soluble protein was obtained through denaturation and refolding procedures, and 
the purified fusion protein showed a purity above 90%. The titer of the 
anti-hLINGO-1(aa76-319) pAb obtained by immunizing the rabbits with the purified 
protein reached 1:1.6x10(6), and Western blotting confirmed its good 
specificity.
CONCLUSION: The fusion protein hLINGO-1(aa76-319) with high purity has been 
obtained and the anti-hLINGO-1(aa76-319) pAb obtained shows a high titer and 
good specificity, which provide important experimental basis for further 
functional investigation of LINGO-1.

PMID: 19923059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2021 Sep 21;9:728501. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.728501. 
eCollection 2021.

Expression and Refolding of the Plant Chitinase From Drosera capensis for 
Applications as a Sustainable and Integrated Pest Management.

Sinelnikov IG(1), Siedhoff NE(2), Chulkin AM(1), Zorov IN(1)(3), Schwaneberg 
U(2)(4), Davari MD(5), Sinitsyna OA(3), Shcherbakova LA(6), Sinitsyn AP(1)(3), 
Rozhkova AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Federal Research Centre Fundamentals of Biotechnology, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
(3)Department of Chemistry, M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, 
Russia.
(4)DWI-Leibniz Institute for Interactive Materials, Aachen, Germany.
(5)Department of Bioorganic Chemistry, Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry, 
Halle, Germany.
(6)All-Russian Research Institute of Phytopathology, Moscow, Russia.

Recently, the study of chitinases has become an important target of numerous 
research projects due to their potential for applications, such as biocontrol 
pest agents. Plant chitinases from carnivorous plants of the genus Drosera are 
most aggressive against a wide range of phytopathogens. However, low solubility 
or insolubility of the target protein hampered application of chitinases as 
biofungicides. To obtain plant chitinase from carnivorous plants of the genus 
Drosera in soluble form in E.coli expression strains, three different approaches 
including dialysis, rapid dilution, and refolding on Ni-NTA agarose to 
renaturation were tested. The developed « Rapid dilution » protocol with 
renaturation buffer supplemented by 10% glycerol and 2M arginine in combination 
with the redox pair of reduced/oxidized glutathione, increased the yield of 
active soluble protein to 9.5 mg per 1 g of wet biomass. A structure-based 
removal of free cysteines in the core domain based on homology modeling of the 
structure was carried out in order to improve the soluble of chitinase. One 
improved chitinase variant (C191A/C231S/C286T) was identified which shows 
improved expression and solubility in E. coli expression systems compared to 
wild type. Computational analyzes of the wild-type and the improved variant 
revealed overall higher fluctuations of the structure while maintaining a global 
protein stability. It was shown that free cysteines on the surface of the 
protein globule which are not involved in the formation of inner disulfide bonds 
contribute to the insolubility of chitinase from Drosera capensis. The 
functional characteristics showed that chitinase exhibits high activity against 
colloidal chitin (360 units/g) and high fungicidal properties of recombinant 
chitinases against Parastagonospora nodorum. Latter highlights the application 
of chitinase from D. capensis as a promising enzyme for the control of fungal 
pathogens in agriculture.

Copyright © 2021 Sinelnikov, Siedhoff, Chulkin, Zorov, Schwaneberg, Davari, 
Sinitsyna, Shcherbakova, Sinitsyn and Rozhkova.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.728501
PMCID: PMC8490864
PMID: 34621729

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


686. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Aug;39(8):1125-33. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-012-1126-9. Epub 2012 Apr 17.

Production host selection for asymmetric styrene epoxidation: Escherichia coli 
vs. solvent-tolerant Pseudomonas.

Kuhn D(1), Bühler B, Schmid A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Biotechnology, Department of Biochemical and Chemical 
Engineering, Technische Universität Dortmund, Emil-Figge-Str. 66, 44221, 
Dortmund, Germany.

Selection of the ideal microbe is crucial for whole-cell biotransformations, 
especially if the target reaction intensively interacts with host cell 
functions. Asymmetric styrene epoxidation is an example of a reaction which is 
strongly dependent on the host cell owing to its requirement for efficient 
cofactor regeneration and stable expression of the styrene monooxygenase genes 
styAB. On the other hand, styrene epoxidation affects the whole-cell 
biocatalyst, because it involves toxic substrate and products besides the burden 
of additional (recombinant) enzyme synthesis. With the aim to compare two 
fundamentally different strain engineering strategies, asymmetric styrene 
epoxidation by StyAB was investigated using the engineered wild-type strain 
Pseudomonas sp. strain VLB120ΔC, a styrene oxide isomerase (StyC) knockout 
strain able to accumulate (S)-styrene oxide, and recombinant E. coli JM101 
carrying styAB on the plasmid pSPZ10. Their performance was analyzed during 
fed-batch cultivation in two-liquid phase biotransformations with respect to 
specific activity, volumetric productivity, product titer, tolerance of toxic 
substrate and products, by-product formation, and product yield on glucose. 
Thereby, Pseudomonas sp. strain VLB120ΔC proved its great potential by 
tolerating high styrene oxide concentrations and by the absence of by-product 
formation. The E. coli-based catalyst, however, showed higher specific 
activities and better yields on glucose. The results not only show the 
importance but also the complexity of host cell selection and engineering. 
Finding the optimal strain engineering strategy requires profound understanding 
of bioprocess and biocatalyst operation. In this respect, a possible negative 
influence of solvent tolerance on yield and activity is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-012-1126-9
PMID: 22526330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2019 Oct 15;181:301-307. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.06.022. Epub 2019 Jun 13.

Tandem oligomeric expression of metallothionein enhance heavy metal tolerance 
and bioaccumulation in Escherichia coli.

Ma W(1), Li X(2), Wang Q(2), Ren Z(2), Crabbe MJC(3), Wang L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, 030006, PR China. 
Electronic address: mawl@sxu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, 030006, PR China.
(3)School of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, 030006, PR China; Wolfson 
College, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX2 6UD, UK; Institute of Biomedical and 
Environmental Science & Technology, Faculty of Creative Arts, Technologies and 
Science, University of Bedfordshire, University Square, Luton, LU1 3JU, UK.

Metallothioneins (MTs) are a family of low molecular weight, cysteine-rich, 
metal-binding proteins, which play important roles in metal homeostasis and 
heavy metal detoxiﬁcation. In our previous study, a novel full length MT cDNA 
was successfully cloned from the freshwater crab (Sinopotamon henanense). In the 
present study, tandem repeats of two and three copies of the crab MT gene were 
integrated by overlap extension PCR (SOE-PCR) and expressed in Escherichia coli. 
The SUMO fusion expression system was adopted to increase the stability and 
solubility of the recombinant MT proteins. The recombinant proteins were 
purified and their metal-binding abilities were further analyzed by the 
ultraviolet absorption spectral scan. Furthermore, the metal tolerance and 
bioaccumulation of E. coli cells expressing oligomeric MTs were determined. 
Results showed that the recombinant plasmids pET28a-SUMO-2MT and pET28a-SUMO-3MT 
were successfully constructed. SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the SUMO-2MT and 
SUMO-3MT were expressed mainly in the soluble forms. Oligomeric MTs expression 
significantly enhanced Cu, Cd or Zn tolerance and accumulation in E. coli in the 
order: SUMO-3MT˃SUMO-2MT˃SUMO-MT˃control. Cells harboring pET28a-SUMO -3MT 
exhibited the highest Cu, Cd or Zn bioaccumulation at 5.8-fold, 3.1-fold or 
6.7-fold higher than that of the control cells. Our research could lay a 
foundation for large-scale preparation of MTs and provide a scientific basis for 
bioremediation of heavy metal pollution by oligomeric MTs.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.06.022
PMID: 31202929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Synth Syst Biotechnol. 2019 Jun 5;4(3):113-119. doi: 
10.1016/j.synbio.2019.05.001. eCollection 2019 Sep.

Genomic and transcriptional changes in response to pinene tolerance and 
overproduction in evolved Escherichia coli.

Niu FX(1), Huang YB(1), Ji LN(1), Liu JZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Synthetic Biology, MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic and 
Synthetic Chemistry, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 
510275, China.

Erratum in
    Synth Syst Biotechnol. 2020 Oct 14;5(4):332.

α-Pinene is an important monoterpene, which is widely used as a flavoring agent 
and in fragrances, pharmaceuticals and biofuels. Although an evolved strain 
Escherichia coli YZFP, which had higher tolerance to pinene and titer, has been 
successfully used to produce high levels of pinene, the pinene titer is much 
lower than that of hemiterpene (isoprene) and sesquiterpenes (farnesene) to 
date. Moreover, the overall cellular physiological and metabolic changes caused 
by higher tolerance to pinene and overproduction of pinene remains unclear. To 
reveal the mechanism of Escherichia coli YZFP with the higher tolerance to 
pinene and titer, a comparative genomics and transcriptional level analyses 
combining with CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) and interference (CRISPRi) were 
carried out. The results show that the tolerance to pinene and the 
overproduction of pinene in E. coli may be associated with: 1) the mutations of 
the DXP pathway genes, the rpoA and some membrane protein genes, and their 
upregulations of transcription levels; and 2) the mutations of some genes and 
their downregulation of transcriptional levels. These comparative omics analyses 
provided some genetic modification strategies to further improve pinene 
production. Overexpression of the mutated cbpA, tabA, pitA, rpoA, sufBCDS, mutS, 
ispH, oppF, dusB, dnaK, dxs, dxr and flgFGH genes further improved pinene 
production. This study also demonstrated that combining comparative omics 
analysis with CRISPRa and CRISPRi is an efficient technology to quickly find a 
new metabolic engineering strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.synbio.2019.05.001
PMCID: PMC6556621
PMID: 31198860


689. Protein Sci. 2002 Feb;11(2):313-21. doi: 10.1110/ps.22102.

Rapid screening for improved solubility of small human proteins produced as 
fusion proteins in Escherichia coli.

Hammarström M(1), Hellgren N, van Den Berg S, Berglund H, Härd T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) Center for 
Physics, Astronomy and Biotechnology, S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.

A prerequisite for structural genomics and related projects is to standardize 
the process of gene overexpression and protein solubility screening to enable 
automation for higher throughput. We have tested a methodology to rapidly 
subclone a large number of human genes and screen these for expression and 
protein solubility in Escherichia coli. The methodology, which can be partly 
automated, was used to compare the effect of six different N-terminal fusion 
proteins and an N-terminal 6*His tag. As a realistic test set we selected 32 
potentially interesting human proteins with unknown structures and sizes 
suitable for NMR studies. The genes were transferred from cDNA to expression 
vectors using subcloning by recombination. The subcloning yield was 100% for 27 
(of 32) genes for which a PCR fragment of correct size could be obtained. Of 
these, 26 genes (96%) could be overexpressed at detectable levels and 23 (85%) 
are detected in the soluble fraction with at least one fusion tag. We find large 
differences in the effects of fusion protein or tag on expression and 
solubility. In short, four of seven fusions perform very well, and much better 
than the 6*His tag, but individual differences motivate the inclusion of several 
fusions in expression and solubility screening. We also conclude that our 
methodology and expression vectors can be used for screening of genes for 
structural studies, and that it should be possible to obtain a large fraction of 
all NMR-sized and nonmembrane human proteins as soluble fusion proteins in E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1110/ps.22102
PMCID: PMC2373440
PMID: 11790841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 Dec;32(2):221-31. doi: 10.1016/S1046-5928(03)00233-X.

DnaK and DnaJ facilitated the folding process and reduced inclusion body 
formation of magnesium transporter CorA overexpressed in Escherichia coli.

Chen Y(1), Song J, Sui SF, Wang DN.

Author information:
(1)Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine and Department of Cell Biology, 
New York University School of Medicine, 540 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016, 
USA.

Overexpression of CorA, the major magnesium transporter from bacterial inner 
membrane, in Escherichia coli resulted in the synthesis of 60mg of protein per 
liter of culture, most of which however was in the form of inclusion bodies. The 
levels of inclusion body formation were reduced by lowering the cell culture 
temperature. To dissect CorA inclusion body formation and the folding process 
involved, we co-expressed the protein with various chaperones and other folding 
modulators. Expression of DnaK/DnaJ (Hsp70) prevented inclusion bodies from 
forming and resulted in the integration of more CorA into the membrane. 
GroEL/GroES (Hsp60/Hsp10) were less effective at reducing CorA inclusion body 
formation. Co-expression with either Ffh/4.5S-RNA, the signal recognition 
particle, or SecA, the ATPase that drives protein insertion into the membrane, 
had little effect on CorA folding. These results indicate: (1) that CorA 
inclusion bodies form immediately after synthesis at 37 degrees C, (2) that CorA 
solubility in the cytosol can be increased by co-expressing a chaperone system, 
(3) membrane targeting is probably not a rate-limiting factor, and (4) that 
membrane insertion becomes a limitation only when large amounts of soluble CorA 
are present in the cytosol. These co-expression systems can be used for 
producing other membrane proteins in large quantities.

DOI: 10.1016/S1046-5928(03)00233-X
PMID: 14965767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Jun;83(2):157-63. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.03.011. Epub 
2012 Mar 28.

In vivo and in vitro characterization of TEV protease mutants.

Wei L(1), Cai X, Qi Z, Rong L, Cheng B, Fan J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Crop Biology of Anhui Province, Anhui Agricultural 
University, Hefei, China.

Tobacco etch virus protease (TEVp) is frequently applied in the cleavage of 
fusion protein. However, production of TEV protease in Escherichia coli is 
hampered by low yield and poor solubility, and auto-cleavage of wild type TEVp 
gives rise to the loss-of-function. Previously it was reported that TEVp S219V 
displayed more stability, and TEVp variant containing T17S/N68D/I77V and double 
mutant L56V/S135G resulted in the enhanced production and solubility, 
respectively. Here, we introduced T17S/N68D/I77V in TEVp S219V to generate 
TEVpM1 and combined five amino acid mutations (T17S/L56V/N68D/I77V/S135G) in 
TEVp S219V to create TEVpM2. Among TEVp S219V, and two constructed variants, 
TEVpM2 displayed highest solubility and catalytic activity in vivo, using EmGFP 
as the solubility reporter, and the designed fusion protein as in vivo substrate 
containing an N-terminal hexahistidine tagged GST, a peptide sequence for 
thrombin and TEV cut and E. coli diaminopropionate ammonia-lyase. The purified 
TEVp mutants fused with double hexahistidine-tag at N and C terminus showed 
highest yield, solubility and cleavage efficiency. Mutations of five amino acid 
residues in TEVpM2 slightly altered protein secondary structure conformed by 
circular dichroism assay.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.03.011
PMID: 22484199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Aug;23(8):707-10.

[Construction and expression of a recombinant adenovirus with LZP3].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen BD(1), Zhang FC, Sun MY, Li YJ, Ma ZH.

Author information:
(1)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering, 
College of Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi 830046, 
China.

AIM: To explore a new immunocontraceptive vaccine and construct an attenuated 
recombinant adenoviral vaccine against Lagurus lagurus zona pellucida 3(LZP3).
METHODS: LZP3 gene was subcloned into the shuttle vector pShuttle-CMV, and then 
a two-step transformation procedure was employed to construct a recombinant 
adenoviral plasmid with LZP3, which was digested with Pac I and transfected into 
HEK293 cells to package recombinant adenovirus particles. Finally, HeLa cells 
were infected by the recombinant adenovirus. LZP3 gene was detected from the 
recombinant virus by PCR, and its transcription and expression were analyzed by 
RT-PCR and Western blot.
RESULTS: Recombinant adenovirus vector pAd-LZP3 with LZP3 gene was constructed 
by homologous recombination in E.coli, and a recombinant adenovirus was obtained 
by transfecting HEK293 cells with pAd-LZP3. PCR test indicated that LZP3 gene 
was successfully integrated into the adenoviral genome, and the titer of the 
recombinant adenovirus reached 1.2x10(10) pfu/L. The transcription and 
expression of LZP3 gene in the infected HeLa cells were confirmed by RT-PCR and 
Western blot.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant adenovirus RAd-LZP3 can be successfully expressed in 
the infected HeLa cells, which lays the foundation for further researches into 
immunizing animals with RAd-LZP3.

PMID: 17618560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Recent Pat Biotechnol. 2021;15(4):302-315. doi: 
10.2174/1872208315666210921095420.

Finding Appropriate Signal Peptides for Secretory Production of Recombinant 
Glucarpidase: An In SilicoMethod.

Vakili O(1), Khatami SH(2), Maleksabet A(3), Movahedpour A(4), Fana SE(5), 
Sadegh R(6), Salmanzadeh AH(6), Razeghifam H(6), Nourdideh S(6), Tehrani SS(5), 
Taheri-Anganeh M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Technologies in 
Medicine, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Medical Sciences and 
Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(5)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Shahid Arefian Hospital, Urmia, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Methotrexate (MTX) is a general chemotherapeutic agent utilized to 
treat a variety of malignancies, woefully, its high doses can cause 
nephrotoxicity and subsequent defect in the process of MTX excretion. The 
recombinant form of glucarpidase is produced by engineered E. coli and is a 
confirmed choice to overcoming this problem.
OBJECTIVE: In the present study, in silico analyses were performed to select 
suitable SPs for the secretion of recombinant glucarpidase in E. coli.
METHODS: The signal peptide website and UniProt database were employed to 
collect the SPs and protein sequences. In the next step, SignalP-5.0 helped us 
to predict the SPs and the position of cleavage sites. Moreover, physicochemical 
properties and solubility were evaluated using Prot- Param and Protein-sol 
online software, and finally, ProtCompB was used to predict the final 
subcellular localization.
RESULTS: Luckily, all SPs could form soluble fusion proteins. At last, it was 
found that PPB and TIBA could translocate the glucarpidase into the 
extracellular compartment.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that there are only 2 applicable SPs for the 
extracellular translocation of glucarpidase. Although the findings were 
remarkable with high degrees of accuracy and precision based on the utilization 
of bioinformatics analyses, additional experimental assessments are required to 
confirm and validate it. Recent patents revealed several inventions related to 
the clinical aspects of vaccine peptides against human disorders.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1872208315666210921095420
PMID: 34547999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Mar Drugs. 2015 Apr 13;13(4):2183-95. doi: 10.3390/md13042183.

Functional recombinants designed from a fetuin/asialofetuin-specific marine 
algal lectin, rhodobindin.

Han JW(1)(2), Jung MG(3), Shim EY(4), Shim JB(5), Kim YM(6), Kim GH(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Kongju National University, Kongju 314-701, Korea. 
jwhan@kongju.ac.kr.
(2)Marine Biodiversity Institute of Korea, Seocheon 427-100, Korea. 
jwhan@kongju.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Biology, Kongju National University, Kongju 314-701, Korea. 
mgjung@kongju.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Biology, Kongju National University, Kongju 314-701, Korea. 
tlasud@kongju.ac.kr.
(5)Department of Biology, Kongju National University, Kongju 314-701, Korea. 
matthew80@kongju.ac.kr.
(6)Department of Biology, Kongju National University, Kongju 314-701, Korea. 
ghkim@kongju.ac.kr.
(7)Department of Biology, Kongju National University, Kongju 314-701, Korea.

Plant lectins have attracted much attention for biomedical applications 
including targeted drug delivery system and therapy against tumors and microbial 
infections. The main problem of using lectins as a biomedical tool is a 
batch-to-batch variation in isoforms content. The production of lectins using 
recombination tools has the advantage of obtaining high amounts of proteins with 
more precise properties, but there are only a handful of functional recombinant 
lectins presently available. A fetuin/asialo-fetuin specific lectin, 
Rhodobindin, has unique tandem repeats structure which makes it useful in 
exploiting for recombinant lectin. We developed three functional recombinant 
lectins using E. coli expression system: one from full cDNA sequence and two 
from fragmentary sequences of Rhodobindin. Hemagglutinating activity and 
solubility of the recombinant lectins were highest at OD 0.7 cell concentration 
at 20 °C. The optimized process developed in this study was suitable for the 
quality-controlled production of high amounts of soluble recombinant lectins.

DOI: 10.3390/md13042183
PMCID: PMC4413206
PMID: 25871294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2003 Nov;19(6):582-4.

[Cloning, prokaryotic expression of CML66 and preparation of its polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

You Q(1), Cheng LL, Wang Y, Wang SJ, Zhang HZ, Ge HL.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Institute of Immunology, Shanghai Second Medical University, 
Shanghai 200025, China. youqiang@etang.com

AIM: To clone and express CML66 cDNA and to prepare rabbit anti-CML66 antibody.
METHODS: cDNA isolated from the testis using RT-PCR was cloned into pGEMT. After 
sequencing, the cDNA was inserted into prokaryotic expression vector pET32b(+). 
The recombinant vector was transformed into BL-21(DE3) through electroporation. 
6xHis-tagged CML66 expression was then induced by IPTG. The protein was purified 
through Ni(2+) affinity chromatography column and characterized by SDS-PAGE and 
Western blot. The purified protein was injected into rabbits to prepare 
polyclonal antibody.
RESULTS: The cloned cDNA sequence was identical with that previously reported. 
The target protein was successfully purified. And rabbit's anti-serum with high 
titer was obtained.
CONCLUSION: We have cloned CML66 successfully, expressed and purified the 
protein in E.coli.Furthermore,rabbit polyclonal antibody has been obtained.

PMID: 15182656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Jun;25(6):504-6.

[Preparation and application of anti-serum against mouse visfatin].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma XH(1), Cai GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China. mxh06@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn

AIM: To prepare polyclonal anti-serum against mouse visfatin and explore the 
expression of visfatin in different mouse tissue.
METHODS: A fragment of gene coding the full length of visfatin was amplified and 
cloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pET28a. Then the recombined 
protein was expressed in E.coli(BL21) and purified by Ni-NTA HIS*BIND RESIN. 
After the indentification of Western blot, the recombined protein was used to 
immune New Zealand rabbit. With the purified anti-serum, we characterized the 
expression of visfatin in different mouse tissues.
RESULTS: According to the results of SDS-PAGE and Western blot, the expression 
of recombined prokaryotic expression vector pET28a-visfatin could be induced by 
IPTG in E.coli. The titer of the anti-serum was above 1:25 600.
CONCLUSION: The results for the identification of vifatin among mouse tissues 
show that visfatin exists in all the detected tissues, with the expression in 
spleen and adipose tissue higher than the others.

PMID: 19500503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 May;21(3):334-6, 339.

[Expression and antibody preparation of a novel serine protease ESP30].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang YY(1), Li FY, Zhang WH, Zhang J, Huang Y, Liu XP, Yao LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China. bioying@fmmu.edu.cn

AIM: To express ESP30, a novel serine protease, in Escherichia coli and to 
prepare anti-ESP30 antibody.
METHODS: ESP30 gene was amplified by PCR from the genome of aeromonas 
hydrophila, and cloned into the expression vector pDH2. The ESP30 expression was 
carried out under thermal induction. The antiserum was prepared by immunizing 
rabbit with ESP30. The titer and specificity of the antibody were detected by 
ELISA and Western blot respectively.
RESULTS: The ESP30 non-fusion protein with relative molecular mass (M(r)) of 
66,000 was highly expressed in E. coli. The rabbit antibody against ESP30 was 
obtained. The ELISA titer of antiserum against ESP30 was about 1:128,000. 
Western blot analysis showed that the antiserum could bind to the expressed 
ESP30 specifically.
CONCLUSION: The rabbit antibody against ESP30 has been successfully prepared, 
which lays the foundation for further studying the structure and function of the 
novel protease ESP30.

PMID: 15862153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Immunol Methods. 2000 Aug 28;242(1-2):101-14. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-1759(00)00243-x.

Effects of unpaired cysteines on yield, solubility and activity of different 
recombinant antibody constructs expressed in E. coli.

Schmiedl A(1), Breitling F, Winter CH, Queitsch I, Dübel S.

Author information:
(1)Universität Heidelberg, Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Im Neuenheimer Feld 
230, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

New E. coli vectors based on the pOPE/pSTE vector system [Gene 128 (1993) 97] 
were constructed to express a single-chain Fv antibody fragment (scFv), a 
scFv-streptavidin fusion protein and two disulfide bond-stabilized Fv antibody 
fragments (dsFvs) utilizing different side chain positions for disulfide 
stabilization. All of these constructs encoded fusion proteins carrying five 
C-terminal histidine residues preceded by an unpaired cysteine. The influence of 
this cysteine, which was originally introduced to allow the chemical 
modification of the fusion proteins, was assessed by exchanging the two amino 
acids CysIle in front of the carboxy terminal His-tag to SerHis in all 
constructs. Yield and antigen-binding activity of the antibody constructs were 
compared after standard lab-scale periplasmic expression in Escherichia coli. 
The removal of the unpaired cysteine resulted in a significant increase in 
antigen-binding activity of the crude periplasmic extracts. Further, a 
three-five fold increase of yield and a significantly improved purity were 
observed after immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) with all four 
constructs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-1759(00)00243-x
PMID: 10986393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;13(10):837-41.

[Preparation of polyclonal antibody of recombinant human thioredoxin-1 and its 
protective effects on neonatal rats with endotoxemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao HY(1), Chen HW, Qian XH, Hu XC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Nanfang Hospital of Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone the gene human thioredoxin 1 (hTrx-1) expressing its protein 
in the E.coli expression system and to obtain its polyclonal antibody, and to 
study the protective effects of hTrx-1 on neonatal rats with endotoxemia.
METHODS: DNA encoding hTrx-1 from fetal liver cells was isolated by RT-PCR. The 
hTrx-1 was cloned to the prokaryotic expression plasmid PET-28a to induce its 
protein expression in the E.coli expression system. The purified hTrx-1 was 
injected into rats to prepare polyclonal antibody. Newborn Sprague-Dawley rats 
were randomly assigned to three groups: control, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 
hTrx-1 (n=12 each). The control and the LPS groups were intraperitoneally 
injected with normal saline and LPS (5 mg/kg), respectively. The hTrx-1 group 
received an intraperitoneal injection of hTrx-1 (10 mg/kg) 30 minutes before LPS 
injection. The mortality rate 24 hrs after injection was compared between the 
three groups.
RESULTS: The prokaryotic expression plasmid PET-28a-hTrx-1 was constructed. The 
hTrx-1 protein was expressed and purified. The polyclonal antibody of hTrx-1 
with the titer of 1∶51200 was prepared. The mortality rate of the control, LPS 
and hTrx-1 groups was 0, 67% and 17%, respectively (χ2=14.400, P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The polyclonal antibody of hTrx-1 is prepared successfully. The 
hTrx-1 protein has protective effects on neonatal rats with endotoxiamia.

PMID: 22000444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. J Am Chem Soc. 2005 Dec 21;127(50):17618-9. doi: 10.1021/ja0561690.

A multifunctional Pasteurella multocida sialyltransferase: a powerful tool for 
the synthesis of sialoside libraries.

Yu H(1), Chokhawala H, Karpel R, Yu H, Wu B, Zhang J, Zhang Y, Jia Q, Chen X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, One Shields Avenue, Davis, 
California 95616, USA.

A multifunctional sialyltransferase has been cloned from Pasteurella multocida 
strain P-1059 and expressed in E. coli as a truncated C-terminal His6-tagged 
recombinant protein (tPm0188Ph). Biochemical studies indicate that the obtained 
protein is (1) an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase (main function), (2) an 
alpha2,6-sialyltransferase, (3) an alpha2,3-sialidase, and (4) an 
alpha2,3-trans-sialidase. The recombinant tPm0188Ph is a powerful tool in the 
synthesis of structurally diverse sialoside libraries due to its relaxed 
substrate specificity, high solubility, high expression level, and 
multifunctionality.

DOI: 10.1021/ja0561690
PMID: 16351087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Dec;28(12):1198-202.

[Study on expression of Streptococcus suis serotype 2 sly gene, purification and 
activity of its product].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu LN(1), Hu FQ, Zhu JM, Zhao Y, Pan Q, Li M, Tang JQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 
400038, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express Streptococcus suis serotype 2 (S. suis 2) sly 
gene for constructing an foundation on identification of S. suis 2 protective 
antigen.
METHODS: The sly gene was amplified from S. suis 2 clinical isolate strain 
05ZYH33 genome DNA by PCR. The gene fragment was inserted into the expression 
vector pET-30b(+) to build pET30b-sly. When recombinant vector pET30b-sly was 
identified by restriction enzyme cutting and DNA sequencing as a correct one, 
subsequently it was transformed to E. coli Rosetta for expression under IPTG 
induction. The obtained fusion protein was purified by Ni-NTA affinity 
chromatography. The immunologic and hemolysis activity of the purified protein 
was proved through Western blot and hemolysis assay respectively.
RESULTS: The PCR product was around 1500 bp. The gene segment inserted into the 
recombinant vector was proven to be completely identical with the sly gene 
sequence in the total genome sequence of S. suis 2. The target protein expressed 
was up to 30% of the total somatic protein under IPTG induction. The protein 
purity reached above 80% after purification. The protein could be recognized by 
human serum infected with S. suis 2 and could dissolve swine erythrocytes with 
the Hemolytic titer as 256.
CONCLUSION: The expression vector pET30b-sly was successfully constructed. The 
target protein could be over-expressed in E. coli and possessed its biological 
activity after purification.

PMID: 18476581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Biotechnol Lett. 2017 May;39(5):759-765. doi: 10.1007/s10529-017-2295-4. Epub 
2017 Feb 2.

Cytoplasmic expression of a thermostable invertase from Thermotoga maritima in 
Lactococcus lactis.

Pek HB(1), Lim PY(1), Liu C(1), Lee DY(1)(2), Bi X(1), Wong FT(3), Ow DS(4).

Author information:
(1)Bioprocessing Technology Institute, A*STAR (Agency for Science, Technology 
and Research), 20 Biopolis Way, #06-01 Centros, 138668, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of 
Singapore, 4 Engineering Drive 4, 117585, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Molecular Engineering Laboratory, Biomedical Sciences Institutes, A*STAR 
(Agency for Science, Technology and Research), Proteos, Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Bioprocessing Technology Institute, A*STAR (Agency for Science, Technology 
and Research), 20 Biopolis Way, #06-01 Centros, 138668, Singapore, Singapore. 
dave_ow@bti.a-star.edu.sg.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the secretory and cytoplasmic expression of a 
thermostable Thermogata maritima invertase in Lactococcus lactis.
RESULTS: The thermostable invertase from T. maritima was cloned with and without 
the USP45 secretory peptide into the pNZ8148 vector for nisin-inducible 
expression in L. lactis. The introduction of an USP45 secretion peptide at the 
N-terminal of the enzyme led to a loss of protein solubility. Computational 
homology modeling and hydrophobicity studies indicated that the USP45 peptide 
exposes a stretch of hydrophobic amino acids on the protein surface resulting in 
lower solubility. Removal of the USP45 secretion peptide allowed a soluble and 
functional invertase to be expressed intracellularly in L. lactis. Immobilized 
metal affinity chromatography purification of the cell lysate with nickel-NTA 
gave a single protein band on SDS-PAGE, while E. coli-expressed invertase 
consistently co-purified with an additional band. The yields of the purified 
invertase from E. coli and L. lactis were 14.1 and 6.3 mg/l respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Invertase can be expressed in L. lactis and purified in a 
functional form. L. lactis is a suitable host for the production of food-grade 
invertase for use in the food and biotechnology industries.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-017-2295-4
PMID: 28155177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Methods Enzymol. 2015;559:17-26. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2014.11.004. Epub 2015 Apr 
15.

Affinity Purification of a Recombinant Protein Expressed as a Fusion with the 
Maltose-Binding Protein (MBP) Tag.

Duong-Ly KC(1), Gabelli SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biophysical Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, 725 N. Wolfe St., 603 WBSB, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(2)Department of Biophysics and Biophysical Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, 725 N. Wolfe St., 603 WBSB, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. 
Electronic address: gabelli@jhmi.edu.

Expression of fusion proteins such as MBP fusions can be used as a way to 
improve the solubility of the expressed protein in E. coli (Fox and Waugh, 2003; 
Nallamsetty et al., 2005; Nallamsetty and Waugh, 2006) and as a way to introduce 
an affinity purification tag. The protocol that follows was designed by the 
authors as a first step in the purification of a recombinant protein fused with 
MBP, using fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC). Cells should have been 
thawed, resuspended in binding buffer, and lysed by sonication or 
microfluidization before mixing with the amylose resin or loading on the column. 
Slight modifications to this protocol may be made to accommodate both the 
protein of interest and the availability of equipment.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2014.11.004
PMCID: PMC4612625
PMID: 26096500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2005 Aug 
30;23(4):213-6.

[Preparation of monoclonal antibodies specific to lactate dehydrogenase of 
Plasmodium falciparum].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang JY(1), Bao YF, Yang YT, Tang LH.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Shanghai, 200025, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare monoclonal antibodies specific to lactate dehydrogenase of 
Plasmodium falciparum.
METHODS: The Plasmodium falciparum lactate dehydrogenase (pLDH) gene was 
amplified from whole blood of malaria patients by PCR and cloned into expression 
vector pGEX-3X. Recombinant pLDH protein was expressed and purified, and used 
for immunizing mice to prepare monoclonal antibodies (McAbs). The McAbs were 
characterized by Western blotting analysis.
RESULTS: The Plasmodium falciparum lactate dehydrogenase gene was amplified and 
cloned into ex pression vector pGEX-3X. The recombinant pLDH plasmid was 
expressed in E. coli) BL-21 cells. 15 cell lines of McAbs with high titer 
against pLDH were obtained using the recombinant pLDH as immunogen. Western 
blotting analysis showed that these McAbs recognized a Mr 33,000 of native 
Plasmodium falci parvum protein without cross reaction with constituents of red 
blood cell of febrile patients from endemic area of malaria.
CONCLUSION: Fifteen hybridoma cell lines secreting high titer of McAb specific 
to Plasmodium falciparum LDH were established based on the recombinant pLDH.

PMID: 16296608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Sheng Wu Hua Xue Yu Sheng Wu Wu Li Xue Bao (Shanghai). 2002 Nov;34(6):753-6.

[Expression, purification of the recombinant protein fragment of the monkey 
epididymis expressed gene ESc-615 and preparation of polyclonal antisera to it].

[Article in Chinese]

Hu ZH(1), Li B, Liu Q, Zhang YL.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell 
Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, the Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, Chin a. yonglz@sunm.shcnc.ac.cn

ESc-615 is a gene which was specifically expressed in epididymis, newly 
discovered in our laboratory. To elucidate the function of ESc-6 15 in sperm 
maturation and fertilization at the protein level, its C-terminal 310 amino ac 
id residues fragment was expressed in E.coli and used to immunize rabbits to 
obtain polyclonal antiserum with titer of 100 000. The antisera could detect th 
e antigen as low as 3 ng. A 63 kD protein in rat epididymis protein extracts 
could be detected in Western blot by using this particular antiserum, in 
accordance with the size of Esc-615 homologue polypeptide deduced from its cDNA. 
Immunostaining results showed that Esc-615 was a secreted protein and could bind 
sperm s, which was similar with other carboxylesterases in male reproductive 
system; t he positive staining was eliminated after antigen absorption. All 
these results showed that this antiserum was not only effective but also highly 
specific, providing a useful tool in further functional studies of Esc-615.

PMID: 12417919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Eur J Biochem. 2002 Nov;269(21):5259-63. doi: 10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.03237.x.

Extra terminal residues have a profound effect on the folding and solubility of 
a Plasmodium falciparum sexual stage-specific protein over-expressed in 
Escherichia coli.

Sati SP(1), Singh SK, Kumar N, Sharma A.

Author information:
(1)Malaria Group, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, New Delhi, India.

The presence of extra N- and C- terminal residues can play a major role in the 
stability, solubility and yield of recombinant proteins. Pfg27 is a 27K soluble 
protein that is essential for sexual development in Plasmodium falciparum. It 
was over-expressed using the pMAL-p2 vector as a fusion protein with the maltose 
binding protein. Six different constructs were made and each of the fusion 
proteins were expressed and purified. Our results show that the fusion proteins 
were labile and only partially soluble in five of the constructs resulting in 
very poor yields. Intriguingly, in the sixth construct, the yield of soluble 
fusion protein with an extended carboxyl terminus of 17 residues was several 
fold higher. Various constructs with either N-terminal or smaller C-terminal 
extensions failed to produce any soluble fusion protein. Furthermore, all five 
constructs produced Pfg27 that precipitated after protease cleavage from its 
fusion partner. The sixth construct, which produced soluble protein in high 
yields, also gave highly stable and soluble Pfg27 after cleavage of the fusion. 
These results indicate that extra amino acid residues at the termini of 
over-expressed proteins can have a significant effect on the folding of proteins 
expressed in E. coli. Our data suggest the potential for development of a novel 
methodology, which will entail construction of fusion proteins with maltose 
binding protein as a chaperone on the N-terminus and a C-terminal 
'solubilization tag'. This system may allow large-scale production of those 
proteins that have a tendency to misfold during expression.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.03237.x
PMID: 12392558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Biotechnol Lett. 2012 Sep;34(9):1629-35. doi: 10.1007/s10529-012-0942-3. Epub 
2012 May 8.

Novel system for in vivo biotinylation and its application to crab antimicrobial 
protein scygonadin.

Li Y(1), Sousa R.

Author information:
(1)Protein Production Core Facility, Department of Biochemistry, University of 
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, Medical Building 431B, 7703 Floyd 
Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA. liy10@uthscsa.edu

BirA is a biotin ligase from Escherichia coli that specifically biotinylates a 
lysine side-chain within a 15-amino acid acceptor peptide (also known as 
Avi-tag). We developed a protocol for producing recombinant BirA ligase in E. 
coli for in vitro biotinylation (Li and Sousa, Prot Expr Purif, 82:162-167, 
2012) in which the target protein was expressed as both thioredoxin and MBP 
fusions, and was released by TEV protease-mediated cleavage. The liberated 
ligase and the fusion proteins were enzymatically active. Based on that 
observation, we have now developed a novel system for in vivo biotinylation by 
co-expressing the Avi-tagged target protein with the MBP-BirA fusion. The 
effectiveness of this system was demonstrated by the successful in vivo labeling 
of antimicrobial protein, scygonadin. This new system shows improved efficiency 
compared with pre-existing one and this is likely attributed to the high 
expression level and solubility of the co-expressed MBP-BirA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-012-0942-3
PMCID: PMC4447092
PMID: 22566209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Feb;99(4):1795-804. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-014-6233-2. Epub 2014 Dec 4.

Biosynthesis of butenoic acid through fatty acid biosynthesis pathway in 
Escherichia coli.

Liu X(1), Yu H, Jiang X, Ai G, Yu B, Zhu K.

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, China.

Butenoic acid is a C4 short-chain unsaturated fatty acid mainly used in the 
preparation of resins, pharmaceuticals, and fine chemicals. However, butenoic 
acid derived from petroleum is costly and unfriendly to the environment. Here, 
we report a novel biosynthetic strategy to produce butenoic acid by utilizing 
the intermediate of fatty acid biosynthesis pathway in engineered Escherichia 
coli. A thioesterase gene (B. thetaiotaomicron thioesterase (bTE)) from 
Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron was heterologously expressed in E. coli to 
specifically convert butenoyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP), a fatty acid 
biosynthesis intermediate, to butenoic acid. The titer of butenoic acid ranged 
from 0.07 to 11.4 mg/L in four different E. coli strains with varied expressing 
vectors. Deletion of endogenous fadD gene (encoding acyl-CoA synthetase) to 
block fatty acid oxidation improved the butenoic acid production in all strains 
to some extent. The highest butenoic acid accumulation of 18.7 mg/L was obtained 
in strain XP-2 (BL21-∆fadD/pET28a-bTE). Moreover, partially inhibiting the 
enoyl-ACP reductase (FabI) of strain XP-2 by triclosan increased butenoic acid 
production by threefold, and the butenoic acid titer was further increased to 
161.4 mg/L by supplying glucose and tryptone in the M9 medium. Fed-batch 
fermentation of this strain further enhanced butenoic acid production to 4.0 g/L 
within 48 h. The butenoic acid tolerance assay revealed that this strain could 
tolerate 15-20 g/L of butenoic acid.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-014-6233-2
PMID: 25472435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2022 Mar 14:e0009722. doi: 10.1128/aem.00097-22. Online 
ahead of print.

An Intrinsically Disordered Peptide Tag that Confers an Unusual Solubility to 
Aggregation-Prone Proteins.

Jo BH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science and Research Institute of Life Science, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju, South Korea.

There is a high demand for the production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia 
coli for biotechnological applications, but their production is still limited by 
their insolubility. Fusion tags have been successfully used to enhance the 
solubility of aggregation-prone proteins; however, smaller and more powerful 
tags are desired for increasing the yield and quality of target proteins. Here, 
the NEXT tag, a 53-amino-acid-long solubility enhancer, is described. The NEXT 
tag showed outstanding ability to improve both in vivo and in vitro 
solubilities, with minimal effect on passenger proteins. The C-terminal region 
of the tag was mostly responsible for in vitro solubility, while the N-terminal 
region was essential for in vivo soluble expression. The NEXT tag appeared to be 
intrinsically disordered and seemed to exclude neighboring molecules and prevent 
protein aggregation by acting as an entropic bristle. This novel peptide tag 
should have general use as a fusion partner to increase the yield and quality of 
difficult-to-express proteins. IMPORTANCE Production of recombinant proteins in 
Escherichia coli still suffers from the insolubility problem. Conventional 
solubility enhancers with large sizes, represented by maltose-binding protein 
(MBP), have remained the first-choice tags; however, the success of the soluble 
expression of tagged proteins is largely unpredictable. In addition, the large 
tags can negatively affect the function of target proteins. In this work, the 
NEXT tag, an intrinsically disordered peptide, was introduced as a small but 
powerful alternative to MBP. The NEXT tag could significantly improve both the 
expression level and the solubility of target proteins, including a thermostable 
carbonic anhydrase and a polyethylene terephthalate (PET)-degrading enzyme that 
are remarkable enzymes for environmental bioremediation.

DOI: 10.1128/aem.00097-22
PMID: 35285717


710. Microb Cell Fact. 2013 May 9;12:46. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-46.

Homologous overexpression of RfaH in E. coli K4 improves the production of 
chondroitin-like capsular polysaccharide.

Cimini D(1), De Rosa M, Carlino E, Ruggiero A, Schiraldi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, Section of Biotechnology and Molecular 
Biology, Second University of Naples, via de Crecchio 7, Naples 80138, Italy. 
donatella.cimini@unina2.it

BACKGROUND: Glycosaminoglycans, such as hyaluronic acid, heparin, and 
chondroitin sulfate, are among the top ranked products in industrial 
biotechnology for biomedical applications, with a growing world market of 
billion dollars per year. Recently a remarkable progress has been made in the 
development of tailor-made strains as sources for the manufacturing of such 
products. The genetic modification of E. coli K4, a natural producer of 
chondroitin sulfate precursor, is challenging considering the lack of detailed 
information on its genome, as well as its mobilome. Chondroitin sulfate is 
currently used as nutraceutical for the treatment of osteoarthritis, and several 
new therapeutic applications, spanning from the development of skin substitutes 
to live attenuated vaccines, are under evaluation.
RESULTS: E. coli K4 was used as host for the overexpression of RfaH, a positive 
regulator that controls expression of the polysaccharide biosynthesis genes and 
other genes necessary for the virulence of E. coli K4. Various engineering 
strategies were compared to investigate different types of expression systems 
(plasmid vs integrative cassettes) and integration sites (genome vs endogenous 
mobile element). All strains analysed in shake flasks on different media showed 
a capsular polysaccharide production improved by 40 to 140%, compared to the 
wild type, with respect to the final product titer. A DO-stat fed-batch process 
on the 2L scale was also developed for the best performing integrative strain, 
EcK4r3, yielding 5.3 g ∙ L(-1) of K4 polysaccharide. The effect of rfaH 
overexpression in EcK4r3 affected the production of lipopolysaccharide and the 
expression of genes involved in the polysaccharide biosynthesis pathway (kfoC 
and kfoA), as expected. An alteration of cellular metabolism was revealed by 
changes of intracellular pools of UDP-sugars which are used as precursors for 
polysaccharide biosynthesis.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study describes the identification of a gene target and 
the application of a successful metabolic engineering strategy to the 
unconventional host E. coli K4 demonstrating the feasibility of using the 
recombinant strain as stable cell factory for further process implementations.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-46
PMCID: PMC3673904
PMID: 23659469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2011 Mar;24(3):283-90. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzq107. Epub 
2010 Nov 25.

Evolution of interleukin-15 for higher E. coli expression and solubility.

Béhar G(1), Solé V, Defontaine A, Maillasson M, Quéméner A, Jacques Y, Tellier 
C.

Author information:
(1)Faculté des Sciences et des Techniques, Université de Nantes, UMR CNRS 6204, 
Biotechnologie, Biocatalyse, Biorégulation, 2 Rue de la Houssinière, BP 92208, 
Nantes F-44322, France.

Directed evolution was used to generate IL-15 mutants with increased solubility 
and cytoplasmic over-expression in Escherichia coli. A protein solubility 
selection method was used in which the IL-15 gene was expressed as an N-terminal 
fusion to chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) as reporter protein. Clones 
that grew in the presence of high concentrations of chloramphenicol were then 
screened by ELISA to assay the binding activity of the IL-15-CAT fusion to the 
IL-15Rα Sushi domain. Two variants of IL-15, M38 and M253, containing five 
mutations and one mutation respectively, were selected with a dramatic 
improvement in solubility; the soluble concentration in cell culture was 12- to 
18-fold higher, respectively, than for WT IL-15. Characterization of their 
binding to IL-15Rα and their ability to stimulate the T-cell growth response 
showed that M38 binds as strongly as native IL-15 to IL-15Rα and acts as an 
effective agonist of IL-15.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzq107
PMID: 21109548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;24(3):171-4.

[The expression and preliminary evaluation of HPV6bL2deltaN360E7E6 fusion 
protein in E. coli for genital warts].

[Article in Chinese]

Pang Z(1), Zhao L, Ren J, Feng J, Zhang ZX, Tan WJ, Ruan L, Tian HW.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, Beijing 
100052, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express HPV6bL2deltaN360E7E6 fusion protein in E. coli and 
preliminarily evaluate its immune effect.
METHODS: Three HPV6b gene fragments, which were L2(1-360 bp), E7 and E6, were 
fused by overlapping PCR, then were inserted into a prokaryotic expression 
vector and expressed in E. coli. C57BL/6 mice were immunized with purified 
fusion protein plus Al (OH)3 and/or CpG adjuvants through intramuscular route, 
the cellular and humoral immune responses were detected by IFN-gamma ELISPOT and 
ELISA respectively.
RESULTS: Protein plus CpG adjuvant could induce the strongest cellular immune 
response to E7 and E6, high antibody titer against L2 could be detected in all 
immunized groups but there were no significant difference among these groups.
CONCLUSIONS: HPV6bL2deltaN360E7E6 gene was successfully cloned into pQE30 vector 
and expressed in E. coli, the fusion protein was also purified and proved that 
could induce strong cellular and humoral immune responses with appropriate 
adjuvant in C57BL/ 6 mice and could be used for future research.

PMID: 21186517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Protein Pept Lett. 2021;28(1):108-114. doi: 10.2174/0929866527666200610133407.

Expression and Purification of the VpDef Defensin in Escherichia coli using the 
Small Metal-Binding Proteins CusF3H+ and SmbP.

Montfort-Gardeazabal JM(1), Claudio PCM(1), Casillas-Vega NG(2), Zarate X(1).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, San 
Nicolas de los Garza, NL 66455, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Patologia Clinica, Universidad Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, 
Hospital Dr. Jose Eleuterio Gonzalez, Monterrey, NL 64460, Mexico.

BACKGROUND: The heterologous production of antimicrobial peptides in bacterial 
models can produce insoluble proteins due to the lack of proper folding. Fusion 
proteins have been used to increase the expression and solubility of these types 
of proteins with varying degrees of success.
OBJECTIVES: Here, we demonstrate the use of the small metal-binding proteins 
CusF3H+ (9.9kDa) and SmbP (9.9kDa) as fusion partners for the soluble expression 
of the bioactive antimicrobial peptide VpDef(6.9 kDa) in Escherichia coli.
METHODS: The recombinant VpDef (rVpDef) peptide was expressed as a translational 
fusion with CusF3H+ and SmbP in Escherichia coli SHuffle under different 
small-scale culture conditions. The best conditions were applied to 1-liter 
cultures, with subsequent purification of the recombinant protein through IMAC 
chromatography. The recombinant protein was digested using enterokinase to 
liberate the peptide from the fusion protein, and a second IMAC chromatography 
step removed the fusion protein. The purified peptide was tested against two 
Gram-positive and two Gram-negative bacteria.
RESULTS: The use either of CusF3H+ or of SmbP results in recombinant proteins 
that are found in the soluble fraction of the bacterial lysate; these 
recombinant proteins are easily purified through IMAC chromatography, and rVpDef 
is readily separated following enterokinase treatment. The purified rVpDef 
peptide exhibits antimicrobial properties against both Gram-positive and 
Gram-negative.
CONCLUSION: Use of the fusion proteins CusF3H+ and SmbP results in production of 
a soluble recombinant protein containing the antimicrobial peptide rVpDef that 
is correctly folded and that retains its antimicrobial properties once purified.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866527666200610133407
PMID: 32520670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Acta Biochim Pol. 2018;65(2):235-240. doi: 10.18388/abp.2017_2350. Epub 2018 May 
30.

Cloning, purification and enzymatic characterization of recombinant human 
superoxide dismutase 1 (hSOD1) expressed in Escherichia coli.

Lin F(1)(2)(3), Yan D(2), Chen Y(2), E FE(2), Shi H(2), Han B(4), Zhou Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 
212013, P. R. China.
(2)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, P. R. 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Healthy Freshwater Aquaculture, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Zhejiang Institute of Freshwater Fisheries, Huzhou 313001, P. R. China.
(4)College of Biological and Pharmaceutical Engineering, West Anhui University, 
Moon Island, Lu'an 237012, P. R. China.

Superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) is a metalloenzyme that catalyzes the 
disproportionation of superoxide into molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. In 
this study, the human SOD1 (hSOD1) gene was cloned, expressed and purified. The 
hSOD1 gene was amplified from a pool of Bxpc3 cell cDNAs by PCR and cloned into 
expression vector pET-28a (+). The recombinant soluble hSOD1 was expressed in E. 
coli BL21 (DE3) at 37°C and purified using nickel column affinity 
chromatography. Soluble hSOD1 was produced with a yield of 5.9 μg/mL medium. As 
metal ions can have a certain influence on protein structure and activity, we 
researched the influences of different concentrations of Cu2+ and Zn2+ on hSOD1 
activity at induction and the time of activity detection. The results implied 
that Cu2+ and Zn2+ do not enhance SOD1 expression and solubility; they can, 
however, improve the catalytic activity at induction. Meanwhile, Cu2+ and Zn2+ 
also enhanced the enzyme activity at the time of detection. Furthermore, most 
other bivalent cations had the potential to replace Zn2+ and Cu2+, and also 
improved enzyme activity at the time of detection.

DOI: 10.18388/abp.2017_2350
PMID: 29850654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Dec;50(2):163-70. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.08.016. Epub 
2006 Sep 12.

Cloning, expression, and purification of a highly immunogenic recombinant 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) chimeric peptide.

Xu J(1), Zhu Z, Duan P, Li W, Zhang Y, Wu J, Hu Z, Roque RS, Liu J.

Author information:
(1)The Biopharmaceutical College, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, PR 
China.

To design an anti-gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) vaccine capable of 
eliciting strong immunogenicity, a gene fragment encoding a chimeric peptide was 
constructed using polymerase chain reaction and ligated into a novel expression 
vector for recombinant expression in a T7 RNA polymerase-based expression 
system. The chimeric peptide called GnRH3-hinge-MVP contained three linear 
repeats of GnRH (GnRH3), a fragment of the human IgG1 hinge region, and a T-cell 
epitope of measles virus protein (MVP). The expression plasmid contained the 
GnRH3-hinge-MVP construct ligated to its fusion partner (AnsB-C) via an unique 
acid labile Asp-Pro linker. The recombinant fusion protein was expressed in an 
inclusion body in Escherichia coli under IPTG or lactose induction and the 
target peptide was easily purified using washing of urea and ethanol 
precipitation. The target chimeric peptide was isolated from the fusion partner 
following acid hydrolysis and purified using DEAE-Sephacel chromatography. The 
purified GnRH3-hinge-MVP was determined to be highly homogeneous by IEF analysis 
and the N-terminal sequencing. Further, immunization of female mice with the 
recombinant chimeric peptide resulted in generation of high-titer antibodies 
specific for GnRH. The results showed that GnRH3-hinge-MVP could be considered 
as a candidate anti-GnRH vaccine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.08.016
PMID: 17064933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Open Biochem J. 2015 Aug 21;9:42-8. doi: 10.2174/1874091X01509010042. 
eCollection 2015.

The Optimization of Soluble PTEN Expression in Escherichia coli.

Hu Y(1), An Y(1), Fang N(1), Li Y(1), Jin H(2), Nazarali A(3), Ji S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical School, Henan 
University, China.
(2)Department of Interventional Therapy, Huaihe Hospital, Henan University, 
China.
(3)College of Pharmacy and Nutrition and Neuroscience Research Cluster, 
University of Saskatchewan, Canada.

As a vital tumor suppressor, PTEN (Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on 
chromosome 10) is involved in inherited syndromes, and is among the most 
frequently inactivated tumor suppressor gene in sporadic cancers. PTEN 
loss-of-function widely occurs in human cancers via a variety of mechanisms, 
including genetic alterations and posttranslational modification. These suggest 
PTEN has a role of functional importance in a variety of cancers. In the present 
study, we constructed a prokaryotic expression vector that efficiently expresses 
GST-PTEN (the target protein in which PTEN is fused with glutathione 
S-transferase tag) in E. coli. We found that the target protein was partially 
soluble although major portions of the protein remained in the inclusion bodies. 
Furthermore, we explored the optimal induction temperature, isopropyl 
β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) concentration and induction time in a series 
of experiments. Expression level analysis indicated that PTEN reached its peak 
level at 36(○)C for 8 h with 1.5625mM IPTG, while solubility analysis revealed 
the optimal induction temperature was at 20(○)C, the optimal IPTG concentration 
was 0.1µM and the optimal induction time was up to 8 h. Taken together, we 
provide an optimal induction condition for expressing soluble fusion protein of 
PTEN in E. coli, facilitating further analysis of PTEN's biological function in 
vitro.

DOI: 10.2174/1874091X01509010042
PMCID: PMC4598374
PMID: 26464590


717. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2015 Jan;68:50-5. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.10.005. 
Epub 2014 Oct 25.

Geranyl diphosphate synthase: an important regulation point in balancing a 
recombinant monoterpene pathway in Escherichia coli.

Zhou J(1), Wang C(1), Yang L(1), Choi ES(2), Kim SW(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang National 
University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Industrial Biotechnology Research Center, KRIBB, Daejeon 305-806, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: choi4162@kribb.re.kr.
(3)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang National 
University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
swkim@gnu.ac.kr.

The expression level of geranyl diphosphate synthase (GPPS) was suspected to 
play a key role for geraniol production in recombinant Escherichia coli 
harboring an entire mevalonate pathway operon and a geraniol synthesis operon. 
The expression of GPPS was optimized by using ribosomal binding sites (RBSs) 
designed to have different translation initiation rates (TIRs). The RBS strength 
in TIR window of 500 arbitrary unit (au)-1400 au for GPPS appears to be suitable 
for balancing the geraniol biosynthesis pathway in this study. With the TIR of 
500 au, the highest production titer of geraniol was obtained at a level of 
1119mg/L, which represented a 6-fold increase in comparison with the previous 
titer of 183mg/L. The TIRs of GPPS locating out of range of the optimal window 
(500-1400 au) caused significant decreases of cell growth and geraniol 
production. It was suspected to result from metabolic imbalance and plasmid 
instability in geraniol production by inappropriate expression level of GPP 
synthase. Our results collectively indicated GPPS as an important regulation 
point in balancing a recombinant geraniol synthesis pathway. The GPPS-based 
regulation approach could be applicable for optimizing microbial production of 
other monoterpenes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.10.005
PMID: 25435505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2009 Dec;27(6):483-7.

[Cloning, expression and immunogenicity analysis of cysteine proteinase 3 of 
Trichomonas vaginalis].

[Article in Chinese]

Jia WZ(1), Li Z, Zhao L, Nie FF, Lun ZR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Parasitic Organisms, State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of 
Life Sciences, Zhongshang University, Guangzhou 510275, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the humoral antibody response of mice to the recombinant 
Trichomonas vaginalis cysteine proteinase (TvCP3) in order to investigate the 
function of the proteinase and its application in diagnosis.
METHODS: T. vaginalis cysteine proteinase gene 3 (TvCP3) was cloned by using 
PCR, and was inserted into the expression vector pET28b. The recombinant plasmid 
pET28b-TvCP3 or pET28b-TvCP3C (a matured and pre-matured enzyme fragment) was 
then transformed to Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The recombinant protein was 
expressed in E. coli, purified by IMAC (immobilized metal affinity 
chromatography), and was used to immune BALB/c mice. The mice were divided into 
groups TvCP3, TvCP3C and control, 6 in each group. The first and second 
injections for each mouse were administered with 25 microg purified TvCPs which 
was emulsified with an equal volume of Freund's complete and incomplete 
adjuvants, respectively. Two more injections were done using 12.5 microg 
purified antigens without adjuvants, with 2 weeks interval between the first 
three injections and one week interval between the 3rd and 4th injections. The 
murine serum samples were detected one week post the 4th injection. The specific 
IgG antibody in the serum against the recombinant protein was evaluated by ELISA 
and Western blotting.
RESULTS: The expression level of TvCP3 and TvCP3C reached to more than 25% of 
the total amount of proteins expressed by the bacteria respectively, and the 
purity in both of them was more than 80% after purified by cobalt-based IMAC 
resin. ELISA showed that both purified recombinant TvCP3 and TvCP3C induced a 
high titer of antibodies in the immunized mice (1/204,800 and 1/102,400, 
respectively). Western blotting analysis indicated that the antibodies reacted 
with a specific band of the whole T. vaginalis antigens or soluble fractions 
from T. vaginalis cultures.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant TvCP3 and TvCP3C proteins have been highly expressed 
in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and the expressed products can induce high level of 
antibodies in BALB/c mice, which recognized a specific band of proteins from T. 
vaginalis soluble fractions and cultures in vitro.

PMID: 20232629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. ACS Synth Biol. 2021 Oct 15;10(10):2488-2498. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00102. 
Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Efficient Production of 2'-Fucosyllactose from l-Fucose via Self-Assembling 
Multienzyme Complexes in Engineered Escherichia coli.

Wan L(1), Zhu Y(1), Chen G(1), Luo G(1), Zhang W(1), Mu W(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(2)International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 
214122, China.

2'-Fucosyllactose (2'-FL) has been widely used as a nutritional additive in 
infant formula due to its multifarious nutraceutical and pharmaceutical 
functions in neonate health. As such, it is essential to develop an efficient 
and extensive microbial fermentation platform to cater to the needs of the 2'-FL 
market. In this study, a spatial synthetic biology strategy was employed to 
promote 2'-FL biosynthesis in recombinant Escherichia coli. First, the salvage 
pathway for 2'-FL production from l-fucose and lactose was constructed by 
introducing a bifunctional enzyme l-fucokinase/GDP-l-fucose pyrophosphorylase 
(Fkp) derived from Bacteroides fragilis and an α-1,2-fucosyltransferase (FutC) 
derived from Helicobacter pylori into engineered E. coli BL21(DE3). Next, the 
endogenous genes involved in the degradation and shunting of the substrate and 
key intermediate were inactivated to improve the availability of precursors for 
2'-FL biosynthesis. Moreover, to further improve the yield and titer of 2'-FL, a 
short peptide pair (RIAD-RIDD) was used to form self-assembling multienzyme 
complexes in vivo. The spatial localization of peptides and stoichiometry of 
enzyme assemblies were subsequently optimized to further improve 2'-FL 
production. Finally, cofactor regeneration was also considered to alleviate the 
potential cofactor deficiency and redox flux imbalance in the biocatalysis 
process. Fed-batch fermentation of the final WLS20 strain accumulated 30.5 g/L 
extracellular 2'-FL with the yield and productivity of 0.661 mol/mol fucose and 
0.48 g/L/h, respectively. This research has demonstrated that the application of 
spatial synthetic biology and metabolic engineering strategies can dramatically 
enlarge the titer and yield of 2'-FL biosynthesis in engineered E. coli.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00102
PMID: 34415729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 May;133:193-198. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.06.010. Epub 
2016 Jun 25.

Effective non-denaturing purification method for improving the solubility of 
recombinant actin-binding proteins produced by bacterial expression.

Chung JM(1), Lee S(1), Jung HS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Natural Sciences, Kangwon National 
University, 1, Kangwondaehak-gil, Chuncheon-si, Gangwon-do, 24341, South Korea.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, College of Natural Sciences, Kangwon National 
University, 1, Kangwondaehak-gil, Chuncheon-si, Gangwon-do, 24341, South Korea. 
Electronic address: hsjung@kangwon.ac.kr.

Bacterial expression is commonly used to produce recombinant and truncated 
mutant eukaryotic proteins. However, heterologous protein expression may render 
synthesized proteins insoluble. The conventional method used to express a poorly 
soluble protein, which involves denaturation and refolding, is time-consuming 
and inefficient. There are several non-denaturing approaches that can increase 
the solubility of recombinant proteins that include using different bacterial 
cell strains, altering the time of induction, lowering the incubation 
temperature, and employing different detergents for purification. In this study, 
we compared several non-denaturing protocols to express and purify two insoluble 
34 kDa actin-bundling protein mutants. The solubility of the mutant proteins was 
not affected by any of the approaches except for treatment with the detergent 
sarkosyl. These results indicate that sarkosyl can effectively improve the 
solubility of insoluble proteins during bacterial expression.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.06.010
PMID: 27353495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;27(2):105-8.

[The high expression of HPV31 and 52 L2 fusion protein in E. coli and detection 
of its immunogenicity].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou L(1), Ren J, Zhao L, Feng J, Hao MQ, Tan WJ, Ruan L, Qu PP, Tian HW.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express HPV31 and 52 L2 fusion protein and detect its 
immunogenicity.
METHODS: According to the amino acid sequences of HPV31 and 52 L2 11-200AA 
published in the GenBank database, weartificially synthesized the HPV31 and 52 
L2 fusion gene which was optimized according to Escherichia coli codon usage and 
encodes 11-200 amino acid of HPV31 and HPV52 L2, then cloned it into pET-9a 
vector. The HPV31 and 52 L2 fusion protein was expressed in Prokaryotic 
expression system and the mice were immunized with the fusion protein after 
purification. The immunogenicity was characterized in vaccinated mice.
RESULTS: HPV31 and 52 L2 fusion protein was highly expressed in E. coli, the 
amount of fusion protein is nearly 20% of the total bacterial protein. The 
purified fusion protein with aluminum adjuvant could induce specific high titer 
of IgG antibodies detected by ELISA, and also induce the neutralizing antibodies 
against pseudovirus of HPV31 and HPV52 and cross-neutralizing antibodies against 
pseudovirus of HPV45, 58, 16, 18.
CONCLUSION: HPV31 and 52 L2 fusion protein could induce neutralizing and 
cross-neutralizing antibodies against HPV pseudovirus. It provides laboratory 
basis for development of HPV L2 protein vaccine.

PMID: 24044213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Protein Sci. 2013 Apr;22(4):434-43. doi: 10.1002/pro.2224. Epub 2013 Feb 21.

High-yield membrane protein expression from E. coli using an engineered outer 
membrane protein F fusion.

Su PC(1), Si W, Baker DL, Berger BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania 18015, USA.

Obtaining high yields of membrane proteins necessary to perform detailed 
structural study is difficult due to poor solubility and variability in yields 
from heterologous expression systems. To address this issue, an Escherichia 
coli-based membrane protein overexpression system utilizing an engineered 
bacterial outer membrane protein F (pOmpF) fusion has been developed. 
Full-length human receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) was expressed 
using pOmpF, solubilized in FC15 and purified to homogeneity. Using circular 
dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopy, purified full-length RAMP1 is composed 
of approximately 90% α-helix, and retains its solubility and structure in FC15 
over a wide range of temperatures (20-60°C). Thus, our approach provides a 
useful, complementary approach to achieve high-yield, full-length membrane 
protein overexpression for biophysical studies.

Copyright © 2013 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.2224
PMCID: PMC3610049
PMID: 23345122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Biotechnol J. 2014 Oct;9(10):1322-8. doi: 10.1002/biot.201400156. Epub 2014 Sep 
8.

High-level conversion of L-lysine into 5-aminovalerate that can be used for 
nylon 6,5 synthesis.

Park SJ(1), Oh YH, Noh W, Kim HY, Shin JH, Lee EG, Lee S, David Y, Baylon MG, 
Song BK, Jegal J, Lee SY, Lee SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering and Energy, Myongji University, 
Cheoin-gu, Yongin, Gyeonggido, Republic of Korea.

L-Lysine is a potential feedstock for the production of bio-based precursors for 
engineering plastics. In this study, we developed a microbial process for 
high-level conversion of L-lysine into 5-aminovalerate (5AVA) that can be used 
as a monomer in nylon 6,5 synthesis. Recombinant Escherichia coli WL3110 strain 
expressing Pseudomonas putida delta-aminovaleramidase (DavA) and lysine 
2-monooxygenase (DavB) was grown to high density in fed-batch culture and used 
as a whole cell catalyst. High-density E. coli WL3110 expressing DavAB, grown to 
an optical density at 600 nm (OD600 ) of 30, yielded 36.51 g/L 5AVA from 60 g/L 
L-lysine in 24 h. Doubling the cell density of E. coli WL3110 improved the 
conversion yield to 47.96 g/L 5AVA from 60 g/L of L-lysine in 24 h. 5AVA 
production was further improved by doubling the L-lysine concentration from 60 
to 120 g/L. The highest 5AVA titer (90.59 g/L; molar yield 0.942) was obtained 
from 120 g/L L-lysine by E. coli WL3110 cells grown to OD600 of 60. Finally, 
nylon 6,5 was synthesized by bulk polymerization of ϵ-caprolactam and 
δ-valerolactam prepared from microbially synthesized 5AVA. The hybrid system 
demonstrated here has promising possibilities for application in the development 
of industrial bio-nylon production processes.

Copyright © 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201400156
PMID: 25124937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Sep;81(18):6276-84. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01448-15. Epub 
2015 Jul 6.

Development of a Recombinant Escherichia coli Strain for Overproduction of the 
Plant Pigment Anthocyanin.

Lim CG(1), Wong L(2), Bhan N(3), Dvora H(1), Xu P(2), Venkiteswaran S(1), Koffas 
MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University at Buffalo, the 
State University of New York, Buffalo, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University at Buffalo, the 
State University of New York, Buffalo, New York, USA Department of Chemical and 
Biological Engineering and Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary 
Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering and Center for 
Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 
Troy, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University at Buffalo, the 
State University of New York, Buffalo, New York, USA Department of Chemical and 
Biological Engineering and Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary 
Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, USA koffam@rpi.edu.

Anthocyanins are water-soluble colored pigments found in terrestrial plants and 
are responsible for the red, blue, and purple coloration of many flowers and 
fruits. In addition to the plethora of health benefits associated with 
anthocyanins (cardioprotective, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antiaging 
properties), these compounds have attracted widespread attention due to their 
promising potential as natural food colorants. Previously, we reported the 
biotransformation of anthocyanin, specifically cyanidin 3-O-glucoside (C3G), 
from the substrate (+)-catechin in Escherichia coli. In the present work, we set 
out to systematically improve C3G titers by enhancing substrate and precursor 
availability, balancing gene expression level, and optimizing cultivation and 
induction parameters. We first identified E. coli transporter proteins that are 
responsible for the uptake of catechin and secretion of C3G. We then improved 
the expression of the heterologous pathway enzymes anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) 
and 3-O-glycosyltransferase (3GT) using a bicistronic expression cassette. Next, 
we augmented the intracellular availability of the critical precursor 
UDP-glucose, which has been known as the rate-limiting precursor to produce 
glucoside compounds. Further optimization of culture and induction conditions 
led to a final titer of 350 mg/liter of C3G. We also developed a convenient 
colorimetric assay for easy screening of C3G overproducers. The work reported 
here constitutes a promising foundation to develop a cost-effective process for 
large-scale production of plant-derived anthocyanin from recombinant 
microorganisms.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01448-15
PMCID: PMC4542239
PMID: 26150456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Metab Eng. 2018 Mar;46:1-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2018.01.002. Epub 2018 Feb 3.

Model-assisted metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for long chain alkane 
and alcohol production.

Fatma Z(1), Hartman H(2), Poolman MG(2), Fell DA(2), Srivastava S(3), Shakeel 
T(1), Yazdani SS(4).

Author information:
(1)Microbial Engineering Group, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, New Delhi, India; DBT-ICGEB Centre for Advanced Bioenergy 
Research, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New 
Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Biological and Medical Sciences, Oxford Brookes University, 
Oxford, UK.
(3)Systems Biology for Biofuel Group, International Centre for Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi, India; DBT-ICGEB Centre for Advanced 
Bioenergy Research, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, New Delhi, India.
(4)Microbial Engineering Group, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, New Delhi, India; DBT-ICGEB Centre for Advanced Bioenergy 
Research, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New 
Delhi, India. Electronic address: shams@icgeb.res.in.

Biologically-derived hydrocarbons are considered to have great potential as 
next-generation biofuels owing to the similarity of their chemical properties to 
contemporary diesel and jet fuels. However, the low yield of these hydrocarbons 
in biotechnological production is a major obstacle for commercialization. 
Several genetic and process engineering approaches have been adopted to increase 
the yield of hydrocarbon, but a model driven approach has not been implemented 
so far. Here, we applied a constraint-based metabolic modeling approach in which 
a variable demand for alkane biosynthesis was imposed, and co-varying reactions 
were considered as potential targets for further engineering of an E. coli 
strain already expressing cyanobacterial enzymes towards higher chain alkane 
production. The reactions that co-varied with the imposed alkane production were 
found to be mainly associated with the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and the 
lower half of glycolysis. An optimal modeling solution was achieved by imposing 
increased flux through the reaction catalyzed by glucose-6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase (zwf) and iteratively removing 7 reactions from the network, 
leading to an alkane yield of 94.2% of the theoretical maximum conversion 
determined by in silico analysis at a given biomass rate. To validate the in 
silico findings, we first performed pathway optimization of the cyanobacterial 
enzymes in E. coli via different dosages of genes, promoting substrate 
channelling through protein fusion and inducing substantial equivalent protein 
expression, which led to a 36-fold increase in alka(e)ne production from 
2.8 mg/L to 102 mg/L. Further, engineering of E. coli based on in silico 
findings, including biomass constraint, led to an increase in the alka(e)ne 
titer to 425 mg/L (major components being 249 mg/L pentadecane and 160 mg/L 
heptadecene), a 148.6-fold improvement over the initial strain, respectively; 
with a yield of 34.2% of the theoretical maximum. The impact of model-assisted 
engineering was also tested for the production of long chain fatty alcohol, 
another commercially important molecule sharing the same pathway while differing 
only at the terminal reaction, and a titer of 1506 mg/L was achieved with a 
yield of 86.4% of the theoretical maximum. Moreover, the model assisted 
engineered strains had produced 2.54 g/L and 12.5 g/L of long chain alkane and 
fatty alcohol, respectively, in the bioreactor under fed-batch cultivation 
condition. Our study demonstrated successful implementation of a combined in 
silico modeling approach along with the pathway and process optimization in 
achieving the highest reported titers of long chain hydrocarbons in E. coli.

Copyright © 2018 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2018.01.002
PMID: 29408291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Immunol Methods. 2001 Sep 1;255(1-2):135-48. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-1759(01)00430-6.

In vivo and in vitro lipidation of recombinant immunogens for direct iscom 
incorporation.

Andersson C(1), Wikman M, Lövgren-Bengtsson K, Lundén A, Ståhl S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan, S-100 44, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

We have previously reported strategies for Escherichia coli production of 
recombinant immunogens fused to hydrophobic tags to improve their capacity to be 
incorporated into an adjuvant formulation (J. Immunol. Methods 222 (1999) 171; 
238 (2000) 181). Here, we have explored the possibility to use in vivo or in 
vitro lipidation of recombinant immunogens as means to achieve iscom 
incorporation through hydrophobic interaction. For the in vivo lipidation 
strategy, a general expression vector was constructed encoding a composite tag 
consisting of a sequence (lpp) of the major lipoprotein of E. coli, fused to a 
dual affinity fusion tag to allow efficient recovery by affinity chromatography. 
Upon expression in E. coli, fatty acids would be linked to the produced gene 
products. To achieve in vitro lipidation, the target immunogen would be 
expressed in frame with an N-terminal His6-ABP affinity tag, in which the 
hexahistidyl tag was utilized to obtain lipidation via a Cu2+-chelating lipid. A 
238 amino acid segment DeltaSAG1, from the central region of the major surface 
antigen SAG1 of Toxoplasma gondii, served as model immunogen in this study. The 
two generated fusion proteins, lpp-His6-ABP-DeltaSAG1 and His6-ABP-DeltaSAG1, 
both expressed at high levels (approximately 5 and 100 mg/l, respectively), 
could be recovered to high purity by ABP-mediated affinity chromatography, and 
were evaluated in iscom-incorporation experiments. The His6-ABP-DeltaSAG1 fusion 
protein was associated to iscom matrix with pre-incorporated chelating lipid. 
Both fusion proteins were found in the iscom fractions after analytical 
ultracentrifugation in a sucrose gradient, indicating successful iscom 
incorporation/association. Iscom formation was further supported by electron 
microscopy analysis. In addition, these iscom preparations were demonstrated to 
induce high-titer antigen-specific antibody responses upon immunization of mice. 
For this particular target immunogen, DeltaSAG1, the induced antibodies 
demonstrated poor reactivity to the native antigen, although slightly better for 
the preparation employing the in vitro lipidation strategy, indicating that 
DeltaSAG1 was suboptimally folded or presented. Nevertheless, we believe that 
the presented strategies offer convenient alternative ways to achieve efficient 
adjuvant incorporation for recombinant immunogens.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-1759(01)00430-6
PMID: 11470294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2022 Feb 6;56(2):171-177. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20211110-01043.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of human adenovirus 
type 7 DNA binding protein].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhu Y(1), Zhang LL(2), Duan YL(2), Xie ZD(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Infection and Virology, Beijing Pediatric Research Institute, 
Beijing Key Laboratory of Pediatric Respiratory Infection Diseases, Research 
Unit of Critical Infection in Children, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical University, Key Laboratory of Major 
Diseases in Children, Ministry of Education, National Clinical Research Center 
for Respiratory Diseases, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing 100045, 
China.
(2)Laboratory of Infection and Virology, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing 100045, 
China.

Objective: To express DNA-binding protein (DBP) of human adenovirus (HAdV) type 
7 using the prokaryotic expression system, and product anti-HAdV-7 DBP rabbit 
polyclonal antibody. Methods: The HAdV-7 DBP gene was synthesized and cloned 
into prokaryotic expressing vector pET30a, and the recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3) competent cell. The recombinant protein DBP 
was expressed by induced Isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and 
purified with Ni-NTA affinity column. The titer of anti-DBP polyclonal antibody 
produced in immunized rabbit was measured by indirect ELISA, and the specificity 
of the antibody was identified by Western blotting and indirect 
immunofluorescence assay (IFA). In addition, purified rDBP was used as coating 
antigen for indirect ELISA assay to detect specific IgM and IgG antibodies 
against DBP in the serum of children infected with HAdV. Results: The HAdV-7 DBP 
plasmid was constructed successfully. The purified recombinant DBP was more than 
95% after purification. The titer of polyclonal antibody was 1∶1 024 000. The 
polyclonal antibody showed high specificity in vitro using Western blotting and 
IFA. The positive rate of specific anti-DBP IgM and IgG antibody in acute-phase 
serum samples collected from children infected with HAdV were 50.0% (19/38) and 
63.2% (24/38), respectively, using indirect ELISA. Conclusion: In summary, the 
HAdV-7 rDBP is expressed using prokaryotic expression system, and the 
recombinant HAdV-7 DBP protein and the anti-DBP rabbit polyclonal antibody with 
high titer are prepared.

Publisher: 目的： 原核表达人腺病毒（HAdV）7型DNA结合蛋白（DBP），制备DBP蛋白多克隆抗体。 方法： 合成HAdV-7 
DBP基因并克隆至pET30a载体，转化大肠杆菌BL21（DE3）感受态细胞，IPTG诱导进行原核表达。经镍离子金属螯合层析纯化后免疫家兔制备多克隆抗体，使用间接酶联免疫吸附试验（ELISA）测定该抗体效价；使用Western 
blotting方法与间接免疫荧光方法（IFA）检测抗体特异性。以rDBP包被ELISA反应板使用间接ELISA对HAdV感染儿童急性期血清中抗DBP蛋白IgM和IgG抗体进行检测。 
结果： 成功构建HAdV-7 
DBP原核表达载体，表达的重组DBP蛋白经镍柱亲和层析纯化后纯度>95%，间接ELISA方法测得制备的多克隆抗血清的抗体效价为1∶1 024 
000，Western blotting方法和IFA方法显示该抗体具有较高的特异性，间接ELISA方法检测HAdV感染儿童 
急性期血清中抗DBP蛋白IgM和IgG抗体的阳性率分别为50.0%（19/38）和63.2%（24/38）。 结论： 成功构建HAdV-7 
DBP蛋白的原达表达载体，获得了HAdV-7型DBP重组蛋白和高效价的兔多克隆抗体。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112150-20211110-01043
PMID: 35078304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Eur J Biochem. 2004 Nov;271(21):4293-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.2004.04369.x.

Coexpression, purification and characterization of the E and S subunits of 
coenzyme B(12) and B(6) dependent Clostridium sticklandii D-ornithine 
aminomutase in Escherichia coli.

Chen HP(1), Hsui FC, Lin LY, Ren CT, Wu SH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology and Department of Chemical Engineering, National 
Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan. hpchen@ntut.edu.tw

D-Ornithine aminomutase from Clostridium sticklandii comprises two strongly 
associating subunits, OraS and OraE, with molecular masses of 12,800 and 82,900 
Da. Previous studies have shown that in Escherichia coli the recombinant OraS 
protein is synthesized in the soluble form and OraE as inclusion bodies. 
Refolding experiments also indicate that the interactions between OraS and OraE 
and the binding of either pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) or adenosylcobalamin 
(AdoCbl) play important roles in the refolding process. In this study, the DNA 
fragment containing both genes was cloned into the same expression vector and 
coexpression of the oraE and oraS genes was carried out in E. coli. The 
solubility of the coexpressed OraS and OraE increases with decreasing isopropyl 
thio-beta-D-galactoside induction temperature. Among substrate analogues tested, 
only 2,4-diamino-n-butyric acid displays competitive inhibition of the enzyme 
with a K(i) of 96 +/- 14 microm. Lys629 is responsible for the binding of PLP. 
The apparent K(d) for coenzyme B(6) binding to d-ornithine aminomutase is 224 
+/- 41 nm as measured by equilibrium dialysis. The mutant protein, OraSE-K629M, 
is successfully expressed. It is catalytically inactive and unable to bind PLP. 
Because no coenzyme is involved in protein folding during in vivo translation of 
OraSE-K629M in E. coli, in vitro refolding of the enzyme employs a different 
folding mechanism. In both cases, the association of the S and E subunit is 
important for D-ornithine aminomutase to maintain an active conformation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.2004.04369.x
PMID: 15511235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Mar;100(5):2183-91. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-015-7048-5. Epub 2015 Nov 10.

Combination of phenylpyruvic acid (PPA) pathway engineering and molecular 
engineering of L-amino acid deaminase improves PPA production with an 
Escherichia coli whole-cell biocatalyst.

Hou Y(1)(2), Hossain GS(1)(2), Li J(1)(2), Shin HD(3), Du G(4)(5), Liu L(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(2)Synergetic Innovation of Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(3)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta, GA, 30332, USA.
(4)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China. gcdu@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(5)Synergetic Innovation of Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122, China. gcdu@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China. longliu@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(7)Synergetic Innovation of Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122, China. longliu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

In our previous study, we produced phenylpyruvic acid (PPA) in one step from 
L-phenylalanine by using an Escherichia coli whole-cell biocatalyst expressing 
an L-amino acid deaminase (L-AAD) from Proteus mirabilis KCTC2566. However, the 
PPA titer was low due to the degradation of PPA and low substrate specificity of 
L-AAD. In this study, metabolic engineering of the L-phenylalanine degradation 
pathway in E. coli and protein engineering of L-AAD from P. mirabilis were 
performed to improve the PPA titer. First, three aminotransferase genes were 
knocked out to block PPA degradation, which increased the PPA titer from 
3.3 ± 0.2 to 3.9 ± 0.1 g/L and the substrate conversion ratio to 97.5 %. Next, 
L-AAD was engineered via error-prone polymerase chain reaction, followed by 
site-saturation mutation to improve its catalytic performance. The triple mutant 
D165K/F263M/L336M produced the highest PPA titer of 10.0 ± 0.4 g/L, with a 
substrate conversion ratio of 100 %, which was 3.0 times that of wild-type 
L-AAD. Comparative kinetics analysis showed that compared with wild-type L-AAD, 
the triple mutant had higher substrate-binding affinity and catalytic 
efficiency. Finally, an optimal fed-batch biotransformation process was 
developed to achieve a maximal PPA titer of 21 ± 1.8 g/L within 8 h. This study 
developed a robust whole-cell E. coli biocatalyst for PPA production by 
integrating metabolic and protein engineering, strategies that may be useful for 
the construction of other biotransformation biocatalysts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-015-7048-5
PMID: 26552798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2009 Apr;17(4):288-91.

[Correlaion between serum Golph2 protein and hepatocellular carcinoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Tan LY(1), Chen J, Wang H, Ye HQ, Li Q, Gu JA, Han LQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, First People's Hospital Baoshan Branch, 
Shanghai 200940, China. tanlongyi@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To study the correlation between hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and 
serum Golph2 protein.
METHODS: Golph2 gene was cloned by RT-PCR using RNA from WBF44 cell line as 
template, the point mutations of the cloned sequence were corrected by PCR, then 
the gene (1206 bp) was cloned into pET-21 plasmid, and the resulted plasmid was 
transformed into E.coli DH5a. The expression of 6xHis and Golph2 fusion protein 
was induced by isopropylthio-beta-D-galactoside (IPTG). The expression of fusion 
protein was detected by SDS-PAGE and Western blot, and was purified by Ni NTA 
chelating agarose. The rabbit antibody against Golph2 protein was obtained by 
immunizing 2 rabbits with the purified Golph2 protein. The specificity and titer 
of the antibody was determined by Western-blot and ELISA respectively. Sandwich 
ELISA was used to detect the level of serum Golph2 protein.
RESULTS: There were two replacement mutation and 1 deletion mutation in the 
cloned sequence contrasted to NM177937 in Genbank, including 644(T-->C, L-->P) , 
970 (G-->A, V-->I) and 802 G deletion. The sequence was completely reversed by 
PCR. The sequence of Golph2 gene cloned into expression vector was confirmed by 
DNA sequencing. SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis showed that Golph2 protein 
was expressed in E.coli DH5a. The antiserum could bind to the 52 kD recombinant 
protein and serum 73 kD protein specifically. The mean A450 value of ELISA for 
serum Golph2 protein were significantly higher in HCC and other liver diseases 
than that in control groups. The sensitivity and specificity for HCC were 44.5% 
and 82.0%, respectively, at the cut off value is more than or equal to 0.40.
CONCLUSION: The polyclonal antibody against Golph2 protein is specific. The 
level of serum Golph2 is significantly higher in patients with HCC and other 
liver diseases than that in healthy controls.

PMID: 19403029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2002 Oct 25;298(2):225-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0006-291x(02)02429-4.

Active human ferritin H/L-hybrid and sequence effect on folding efficiency in 
Escherichia coli.

Lee J(1), Kim SW, Kim YH, Ahn JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 1, 5-Ka, 
Anam-Dong, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-701, Republic of Korea. leejw@korea.ac.kr

In Escherichia coli, the recombinant human L-chain ferritin was synthesized in 
the form of inclusion bodies under the control of T7 promoter system. We 
developed a recombinant ferritin H/L-hybrid by a direct gene fusion between H- 
and L-chain subunits. Surprisingly, the presence of heavy-chain polypeptide at 
the amino terminus of light chain significantly increased the cytoplasmic 
solubility of the recombinant ferritin hybrid, i.e., more than 80% of 
synthesized ferritin hybrid was soluble in intracellular region regardless of 
the changes in cell growth and gene expression conditions such as type of 
inducer, growth media, culture scale, etc. The soluble ferritin H/L-hybrid was 
biologically active with the iron storage capacity (295mol Fe(+3) per mol 
H/L-hybrid) equivalent to ferritin standard. Different types of hybrid mutants 
were also developed using various H-chain derivatives. Comparison of the 
intracellular solubilities of the synthesized hybrid mutants showed that the 
N-terminus four helices of heavy subunit were of crucial importance in 
maintaining the high solubility in E. coli cytoplasm. Consequently, the 
increased solubility of the ferritin hybrid seems to be related to such H-chain 
sequence that forms ferroxidase center and promotes effective intra-molecular 
interaction with L-chain domain of H/L-hybrid for enhancing the folding 
efficiency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-291x(02)02429-4
PMID: 12387819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Molecules. 2018 Dec 3;23(12):3185. doi: 10.3390/molecules23123185.

De Novo Biosynthesis of p-Coumaric Acid in E. coli with a trans-Cinnamic Acid 
4-Hydroxylase from the Amaryllidaceae Plant Lycoris aurea.

Li Y(1)(2), Li J(3), Qian B(4), Cheng L(5), Xu S(6)(7), Wang R(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 
210014, China. liyikui@cnbg.net.
(2)The Jiangsu Provincial Platform for Conservation and Utilization of 
Agricultural Germplasm, Nanjing 210014, China. liyikui@cnbg.net.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 
210014, China. lj734820531@163.com.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 
210014, China. qian_binbin01@163.com.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 
210014, China. chengli9075@163.com.
(6)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 
210014, China. xusheng@cnbg.net.
(7)The Jiangsu Provincial Platform for Conservation and Utilization of 
Agricultural Germplasm, Nanjing 210014, China. xusheng@cnbg.net.
(8)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for the Research and Utilization of Plant Resources, 
Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 
210014, China. rwang@cnbg.net.
(9)The Jiangsu Provincial Platform for Conservation and Utilization of 
Agricultural Germplasm, Nanjing 210014, China. rwang@cnbg.net.

p-Coumaric acid is a commercially available phenolcarboxylic acid with a great 
number of important applications in the nutraceutical, pharmaceutical, material 
and chemical industries. p-Coumaric acid has been biosynthesized in some 
engineered microbes, but the potential of the plant CYP450-involved biosynthetic 
route has not investigated in Escherichia coli. In the present study, a novel 
trans-cinnamic acid 4-hydroxylase (C4H) encoding the LauC4H gene was isolated 
from Lycoris aurea (L' Hér.) Herb via rapid amplification of cDNA ends. Then, 
N-terminal 28 amino acids of LauC4H were characterized, for the subcellular 
localization, at the endoplasmic reticulum membrane in protoplasts of 
Arabidopsis thaliana. In E. coli, LauC4H without the N-terminal membrane anchor 
region was functionally expressed when fused with the redox partner of A. 
thaliana cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYP450), and was verified to catalyze the 
trans-cinnamic acid to p-coumaric acid transformation by whole-cell 
bioconversion, HPLC detection and LC-MS analysis as well. Further, with 
phenylalanine ammonia-lyase 1 of A. thaliana, p-coumaric acid was de novo 
biosynthesized from glucose as the sole carbon source via the phenylalanine 
route in the recombinant E. coli cells. By regulating the level of intracellular 
NADPH, the production of p-coumaric acid was dramatically improved by 9.18-fold, 
and achieved with a titer of 156.09 μM in shake flasks. The recombinant cells 
harboring functional LauC4H afforded a promising chassis for biological 
production of p-coumaric acid, even other derivatives, via a plant 
CYP450-involved pathway.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules23123185
PMCID: PMC6320932
PMID: 30513965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


733. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2007 Dec;25(6):442-6.

[Prokaryotic expression of Trichinella spiralis gene Ts21 and identification of 
the recombinant protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang ZQ(1), Lu L, Cui J, Wang L, Wang R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, Medical College, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 
450052, China. wangzq@zzu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To express the antigen gene Ts21 of Trichinella spiralis, purify the 
recombinant protein and test its antigenicity.
METHODS: T. spiralis gene Ts21 was sub-cloned into the prokaryotic expression 
vector pMAL-c2X and the recombinant pMAL-c2X-Ts21 was constructed. The 
recombinant plasmid was transformed into E. coli TB1 strain and induced by IPTG. 
The expression products were purified by MBP-binding affinity chromatography. 
The antigenicity of the recombinant protein was examined by SDS-PAGE and Western 
blotting. Mice were immunized with the recombinant protein, the titer of the 
immune sera was detected by ELISA. The distribution of Ts21 protein in muscle 
larvae was observed by IFA.
RESULTS: The molecular weight of the expressed fusion protein was about Mr 
63,500 and the expression level peaked at 4 h post-incubation. The portion of 
the fusion protein accounted for 18.2% of all the protein by thin-layer gel 
optical scanning. Western blotting demonstrated that the recombinant protein was 
recognized by sera from mice infected by T. spiralis (T1) and T. nelsoni (T7) as 
well as sera of patients with trichinellosis, but not by sera from mice infected 
with T. nativa (T2), T. britovi (T3) and T. pseudospiralis (T4). The recombinant 
protein did not react with sera from patients with ancylostomiasis, 
cysticercosis and schistosomiasis, but cross-reacted with sera from patients 
with paragonimiasis, clonorchiasis and echinococcosis. High titers of antibodies 
were produced in mice immunized with the recombinant protein. IFA showed that 
the Ts21 protein was mainly distributed in the cuticle of muscle larvae.
CONCLUSION: The Ts21 antigen gene of T. spiralis has been expressed and the 
recombinant protein shows antigenicity.

PMID: 18441887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Sep;21(5):570-4.

[Expression, antibody production and bioactivity detection of cellular repressor 
of E1A-stimulated gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Han YL(1), Liu HW, Yan CH, Kang J, Wang XZ, Hu Y.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Institute of PLA, Department of Cardiology, General Hospital 
of Shenyang Command of Chinese PLA, Shenyang 110016, China. hanyal@mail.sy.ln.cn

AIM: To obtain the human cellular repressor of E1A-stimulated gene (hCREG) 
protein and the polyclonal antibody against the hCREG, and to further observe 
the expression and localization of hCREG protein in human internal thoracic 
artery cells (HITASY).
METHODS: The hCREG cDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned into the pGEX-4T-1. 
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-hCREG fusion protein was expressed in E.coli 
BL21 and was used to immunize rabbits to obtain anti-hCREG serum, which was 
purified by protein A and GST immobilized on glutathione-Sepharose beads. The 
titer and specificity of polyclonal antibodies were determined by ELISA and 
Western blot analysis. The expression and localization of hCREG protein were 
detected with immunofluorescence staining in HITASY cells after serum removal. 
The proliferation of HITASY cells affected by hCREG protein was examined by 
means of BrdU stain.
RESULTS: It was confirmed that hCREG cDNA was correctly inserted into the vector 
by endonuclease digesting and DNA sequencing. The expressed GST-hCREG protein 
was purified by the gel-filtration and its purity was up to about 90%. The 
anti-hCREG polyclonal antibody was specific with high titer (>1:10(5)) and the 
hCREG protein was expressed in a perinuclear pattern in HITASY cells after serum 
deprivation. It was also observed that the proliferation of HITASY cells was 
obviously inhibited by hCREG protein.
CONCLUSION: The hCREG protein was highly expressed in HITASY cells and inhibited 
HITASY cell proliferation, suggesting that it may be involved in the process of 
proliferation and differentiation of vascular smooth muscle cells.

PMID: 16143059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2011 Apr;27(4):566-71.

[Cloning and expression of Staphylococcus aureus surface protein Isdb and its 
immune experiment in mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma J(1), Cui Y, Zhang J, Zhu Z, Piao F.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Biotechnology, Heilongjiang Bayi Agricultural 
University, Daqing 163319, China.

In order to characterize the immunogenicity and immunoprotection of the 
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) surface Isdb, we amplified Isdb gene from S. 
aureus Wood46 strain. The isdb gene was subsequently inserted into pET32a(+) 
vector and the recombinant plasmid was transformed into E. coli strain BL21. The 
recombinant Isdb was expressed and purified. Then, we immunized mice with the 
purified recombinant protein. The antibody level was measured by enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. Finally, immunized mice were challenged with S. aureus 
strains Wood46 and HLJ23-1. These results showed that isdb gene sequences were 
highly conserved, and the recombinant Isdb was successfully expressed. The 
antibody titer in the immunized groups was increased significantly (P < 0.05) 
compared with the control, the protective rate of Isdb protein inducted by 
challenge with the two S. aureus stains Wood46 and HLJ23-1 was 62.5% and 75%, 
respectively. These results showed that the Isdb protein had high immunogenicity 
and immunoprotective capacity.

PMID: 21847990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Microb Cell Fact. 2015 Nov 20;14:185. doi: 10.1186/s12934-015-0369-3.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) production 
via threonine bypass.

Lin Z(1)(2)(3), Zhang Y(4)(5)(6), Yuan Q(7)(8)(9)(10), Liu Q(11)(12)(13), Li 
Y(14)(15)(16), Wang Z(17)(18)(19), Ma H(20), Chen T(21)(22)(23)(24), Zhao 
X(25)(26)(27).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zhenquanlin@tju.edu.cn.
(2)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science 
and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, 
Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zhenquanlin@tju.edu.cn.
(3)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zhenquanlin@tju.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zhangyan12@tju.edu.cn.
(5)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science 
and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, 
Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zhangyan12@tju.edu.cn.
(6)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zhangyan12@tju.edu.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. yuanqian@tju.edu.cn.
(8)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science 
and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, 
Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. yuanqian@tju.edu.cn.
(9)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. yuanqian@tju.edu.cn.
(10)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China. 
yuanqian@tju.edu.cn.
(11)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. liuqiaojie@tju.edu.cn.
(12)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical 
Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. liuqiaojie@tju.edu.cn.
(13)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. liuqiaojie@tju.edu.cn.
(14)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. yfl@tju.edu.cn.
(15)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical 
Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. yfl@tju.edu.cn.
(16)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. yfl@tju.edu.cn.
(17)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zww@tju.edu.cn.
(18)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical 
Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zww@tju.edu.cn.
(19)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. zww@tju.edu.cn.
(20)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China. 
ma_hw@tib.cas.cn.
(21)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. chentao@tju.edu.cn.
(22)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical 
Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. chentao@tju.edu.cn.
(23)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. chentao@tju.edu.cn.
(24)Department of Biochemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Nankai District, 92 Weijin Road, Tianjin, 
300072, China. chentao@tju.edu.cn.
(25)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, 300072, China. xmzhao@tju.edu.cn.
(26)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical 
Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. xmzhao@tju.edu.cn.
(27)Edinburg-Tianjin Joint Research Centre for Systems Biology and Synthetic 
Biology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China. xmzhao@tju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB), have been considered to be good 
candidates for completely biodegradable polymers due to their similar mechanical 
properties to petroleum-derived polymers and complete biodegradability. 
Escherichia coli has been used to simulate the distribution of metabolic fluxes 
in recombinant E. coli producing poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB). Genome-scale 
metabolic network analysis can reveal unexpected metabolic engineering 
strategies to improve the production of biochemicals and biofuels.
RESULTS: In this study, we reported the discovery of a new pathway called 
threonine bypass by flux balance analysis of the genome-scale metabolic model of 
E. coli. This pathway, mainly containing the reactions for threonine synthesis 
and degradation, can potentially increase the yield of PHB and other acetyl-CoA 
derived products by reutilizing the CO2 released at the pyruvate dehydrogenase 
step. To implement the threonine bypass for PHB production in E. coli, we 
deregulated the threonine and serine degradation pathway and enhanced the 
threonine synthesis, resulting in 2.23-fold improvement of PHB titer. Then, we 
overexpressed glyA to enhance the conversion of glycine to serine and activated 
transhydrogenase to generate NADPH required in the threonine bypass.
CONCLUSIONS: The result strain TB17 (pBHR68) produced 6.82 g/L PHB with the 
yield of 0.36 g/g glucose in the shake flask fermentation and 35.92 g/L PHB with 
the yield of 0.23 g/g glucose in the fed-batch fermentation, which was almost 
3.3-fold higher than the parent strain. The work outlined here shows that 
genome-scale metabolic network analysis can reveal novel metabolic engineering 
strategies for developing efficient microbial cell factories.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-015-0369-3
PMCID: PMC4654888
PMID: 26589676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2009 Sep;84(4):649-57. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-009-1986-8. Epub 2009 Apr 8.

Effect of process parameters on 3-hydroxypropionic acid production from glycerol 
using a recombinant Escherichia coli.

Mohan Raj S(1), Rathnasingh C, Jung WC, Park S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering, Pusan National 
University, Busan, 609-735, Republic of Korea.

The top-valued platform chemical, 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP), has a wide 
range of industrial applications but its biological production is not well 
established. Previously, the production of 3-HP from glycerol was demonstrated 
using a recombinant Escherichia coli strain expressing glycerol dehydratase 
(dhaB) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldH). The present investigation focuses on 
the effect of the culture conditions on the production of 3-HP from glycerol. 
The physicochemical parameters, such as pH, IPTG concentration, liquid-to-flask 
volume ratio, and substrate concentration, were examined in flask-scale 
experiments and obtained the highest titer of 3-HP at 4.4 g l(-1) in 48 h. When 
a fed-batch process was carried out in a bioreactor under pH-regulated 
conditions, the recombinant E. coli produced 3-HP at 31 g l(-1) in 72 h with a 
yield of 0.35 mol mol(-1) glycerol. The maximum specific rate of 3-HP production 
was estimated to be 3.41 mmol g(-1) cdw h(-1) between 12 and 24 h. Other than 
3-HP, propionic acid (3.4 g l(-1)), 1,3-propanediol (2.4 g l(-1)), and lactic 
acid (1.6 g l(-1)) were produced as the major by-products. This paper reports 
for the first time a commercially meaningful high titer of 3-HP production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-009-1986-8
PMID: 19352643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2016 May;32(3):292-7.

[Preparation,Identification,and Application of Monoclonal Antibody against Orf 
Virus 118 Protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Xiao B, Hao W, Du Z, Liao X, Luo S.

This study was designed to prepare a monoclonal antibody against Orf virus 118 
protein and explore the biological properties of ORFV118 using this antibody. We 
constructed a recombinant plasmid pET33b-ORFV118 that contained a full-length 
ORFV118 gene. The plasmid was transformed into E.coli BL21,and the expression of 
ORFV118 was induced by isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactoside (IPTG).Prokaryotic ORFV118 
was purified via Ni-NTA affinity chromatography and was subsequently used as an 
antigen to immunize mice. An anti-ORFV118 antibody was prepared using hybridoma 
technology. The titer and specificity of this antibody were tested by an 
indirect ELISA and Western blot/immunohistochemistry, respectively. We 
successfully obtained three antibody-secreting hybridomas,1A2,3B5,and 5D10.The 
titers of the three hybridomas were 1:10000,1:6400,and 1:8000.The monoclonal 
antibody (mAb),1A2 and the highest titer was selected for further research. The 
mAb 1A2,an IgG1 type antibody was bonded to its immunizing antigen, both the 
eukaryotic and natural ORFV118 with high specificity. The immunohistochemical 
analysis showed that the focal specific staining was restricted to the epidermal 
layer and subcutaneous tissue, which conformed to the characteristics of an ORFV 
infection. The mAb 1A2 recognized ORFV118with high specificity. Further study of 
mAb 1A2 will facilitate our understanding of ORFV118 and provide potentially 
novel methods for the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of Orf.

PMID: 29963789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 26;9(11):e112254. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112254. 
eCollection 2014.

Synonymous rare arginine codons and tRNA abundance affect protein production and 
quality of TEV protease variant.

Fang J(1), Zou L(1), Zhou X(1), Cheng B(1), Fan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Crop Biology of Anhui Province, School of Life Science, 
Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui, PR China.

It has been identified that a TEV protease (TEVp) variant, TEVp(5M), displays 
improved solubility. Here, we constructed fifteen TEVp(5M) variants with one or 
more of six rare arginine codons in the coding sequence replaced with abundant 
E. coli arginine codons. These codon variants expressed in either E. coli BL21 
(DE3) or Rossetta (DE3) showed different solubility and activity. Supply of rare 
tRNAs increased the tendency of certain codon variants to form insoluble 
aggregates at early induction stage, as determined by the fused S-tag. About 32% 
increase in soluble protein production of M5 variant with four synonymously 
mutated arginine codons was identified in Rossetta (DE3) cells using GFP fusion 
reporter, comparable to that of TEVp(5M). After purification, two other codon 
variants from both E. coli strains exhibited less activity than TEVp(5M) on 
cleaving the native or modified recognition sequence incorporated between GST 
and E. coli diaminopropionate ammonialyase by enzyme-coupled assay, whereas 
purified M5 variant showed activity similar to the TEVp(5M). Supply of rare 
tRNAs caused the decrease of activity of TEVp(5M) and M5 by about 21%. Our 
results revealed that engineering of highly soluble TEVp variants can be 
achieved by the combined mutations of amino acid residues and optimization of 
specific rare codons, whereas simple augment of rare tRNAs abundance resulted in 
partial loss of activity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112254
PMCID: PMC4245098
PMID: 25426854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


740. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Sep;31(9):1259-62.

[Preparation of a uncoordinated-5 homolog B monoclonal antibody and its effect 
on melanoma cell migration in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Zuo Y(1), Yang J(2), He Y(1), Zhao Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow 
University, Ministry of Health Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Hemostasis, 
Suzhou 215006; Cyrus Tang Hematology Center, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, 
China.
(2)Cyrus Tang Hematology Center, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.
(3)Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow 
University, Ministry of Health Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Hemostasis, 
Suzhou 215006, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare and characterize the monoclonal antibody (mAb) against 
uncoordinated-5 homolog B (UNC5B) and analyze its effect on the migration of 
melanoma cells.
METHODS: UNC5B gene fragment was cloned into the prokaryotic expression vector 
pET-32a. The recombinant UNC5B protein was expressed in E.coli BL21 (DE3) and 
purified by affinity chromatography. BALB/c mice were immunized with the 
recombinant protein and the hybridoma cell clones stably secreting UNC5B 
antibody were screened by traditional hybridoma technique. ELISA, Western 
blotting and flow cytometry were used to characterize the specificity of the 
antibodies. In addition, the effect of the mAb on melanoma cell migration was 
analyzed by wound healing assay.
RESULTS: The recombinant UNC5B protein was expressed and purified. One 
high-titer antibody 2C9 was obtained. ELISA, Western blotting and flow cytometry 
all demonstrated that 2C9 antibody specifically recognized the UNC5B protein. 
Wound healing assay indicated that the UNC5B mAb could promote melanoma cell 
migration at the presence of netrin-1.
CONCLUSION: A UNC5B-specific monoclonal antibody was prepared and proved to have 
the ability of promoting melanoma cell migration at the presence of netrin-1.

PMID: 26359108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. J Biotechnol. 2020 Nov 10;323:107-112. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.08.003. Epub 
2020 Aug 11.

Enhanced anticoagulant activity of hirudin-i analogue co-expressed with 
arylsulfotransferase in periplasm of E. coli BL21(DE3).

Rai K(1), Chu X(2), Bao Z(3), Liang Y(1), Wang X(4), Yang J(3), Xian M(3), Sun 
Y(5), Nian R(6).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, China; University 
of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, China.
(4)Shandong Fengjin Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Yantai, China.
(5)CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, China. Electronic 
address: sunyue@qibebt.ac.cn.
(6)CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, China. Electronic 
address: nianrui@qibebt.ac.cn.

Hirudin, a blood anticoagulant, is the most potent natural thrombin inhibitor of 
leech origin. Its application is limited because it is difficult to obtain 
abundant natural hirudin directly from the leech. Although some bioengineering 
methods can significantly increase the production of hirudin, the reduced 
efficacy of recombinant hirudin (rH) remains a critical shortcoming. The lack of 
sulfation of tyrosine 63 in rH is an important cause of its inadequate 
performance. This article is the first report of periplasmic co-expression of an 
rH-I analogue with arylsulfotransferase (ASST) in E. coli BL21(DE3). 
Co-expressed rH-I analogue with sulfate donor substrate (p-nitrophenyl sulfate 
potassium) showed anticoagulant (rabbit and goat serum) activity twice more than 
rH-I analogue expressed without ASST, indicating its potential periplasmic 
sulfation. Moreover, purified rH-I analogue showed above 4.5 times higher 
anticoagulant activity compared to therapeutic anti-thrombotic heparin (HE). At 
the same time, pH-dependent differential solubility was employed to purify rH 
analogues from fermentation broth, which is a simple, fast and inexpensive 
purification technology, and can potentially be used for larger scale 
purification. This will also greatly improve the application of rH in clinical 
treatment.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.08.003
PMID: 32795502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Jul;97(13):5861-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-013-4713-4. Epub 2013 Jan 29.

Directed evolution of phloroglucinol synthase PhlD with increased stability for 
phloroglucinol production.

Rao G(1), Lee JK, Zhao H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600 
South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Phloroglucinol synthase PhlD is a type III polyketide synthase capable of 
directly converting three molecules of malonyl-CoA to an industrially important 
chemical--phloroglucinol (1, 3, 5-trihydroxylbenzene). Although this enzymatic 
process provides an attractive biosynthetic route to phloroglucinol, the low 
productivity of PhlD limits its further practical application. Here we used 
protein engineering coupled with in situ product removal to improve the 
productivity of phoroglucinol biosynthesis in recombinant Escherichia coli. 
Specifically, directed evolution was used to obtain a series of thermostable 
PhlD mutants with the best one showing over 24-fold longer half-life of thermal 
inactivation than the wild-type enzyme at 37 °C. When introduced into a 
malonyl-CoA overproducing E. coli strain, one of the mutants showed 30% 
improvement in phloroglucinol productivity compared to the wild-type enzyme in a 
shake-flask study and the final phloroglucinol concentration reached 2.35 g/L 
with 25% of theoretical yield. A continuous product extraction strategy was 
designed to remove the toxic phloroglucinol product from the cell media, which 
further increased the titer of phloroglucinol to 3.65 g/L, which is the highest 
phloroglucinol titer ever reported to date.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-013-4713-4
PMID: 23358999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Carbohydr Polym. 2022 Feb 1;277:118796. doi: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2021.118796. Epub 
2021 Oct 21.

Development of an O-polysaccharide based recombinant glycoconjugate vaccine in 
engineered E. coli against ExPEC O1.

Jiang X(1), Bai J(1), Zhang H(1), Yuan J(1), Lu G(1), Wang Y(1), Jiang L(1), Liu 
B(1), Huang D(2), Feng L(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Nankai University, Tianjin, PR China; TEDA Institute of Biological 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Microbial Functional 
Genomics, Nankai University, Tianjin, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Nankai University, Tianjin, PR China; TEDA Institute of Biological 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Microbial Functional 
Genomics, Nankai University, Tianjin, PR China. Electronic address: 
huangdi@nankai.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Nankai University, Tianjin, PR China; TEDA Institute of Biological 
Sciences and Biotechnology, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Microbial Functional 
Genomics, Nankai University, Tianjin, PR China. Electronic address: 
fenglu63@nankai.edu.cn.

Extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli O1 is a frequently identified 
serotype that causes serious infections and is often refractory to antimicrobial 
therapy. Glycoconjugate vaccine represents a promising measure to reduce ExPEC 
infections. Herein, we designed an O1-specific glyco-optimized chassis strain 
for manufacture of O-polysaccharide (OPS) antigen and OPS-based bioconjugate. 
Specifically, OPS and OPS-based glycoprotein were synthesized in glyco-optimized 
chassis strain, when compared to the unmeasurable level of the parent strain. 
The optimal expression of oligosaccharyltransferase and carrier protein further 
improved the titer. MS analysis elucidated the correct structure of resulting 
bioconjugate at routine and unreported glycosylation sequons of carrier protein, 
with a higher glycosylation efficiency. Finally, purified bioconjugate 
stimulated mouse to generate specific IgG antibodies and protected them against 
virulent ExPEC O1 challenge. The plug-and-play glyco-optimized platform is 
suitable for bioconjugate synthesis, thus providing a potential platform for 
future medical applications.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2021.118796
PMID: 34893224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 Mar 15;8(3):548-556. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00466. Epub 
2019 Feb 28.

An Artificial Biosynthetic Pathway for 2-Amino-1,3-Propanediol Production Using 
Metabolically Engineered Escherichia coli.

Luo Y(1), Zhao Q(1), Liu Q(1), Feng Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology , Shanghai Jiao Tong University , Shanghai 200240 , People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Joint International Research Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences 
, Shanghai Jiao Tong University , Shanghai 200240 , People's Republic of China.

2-Amino-1,3-propanediol (2-APD) is a chemical building block for the production 
of various value-added pharmaceuticals. However, the current manufacture of 
2-APD predominantly relies on chemical processes by utilizing fossil 
fuel-derived and highly explosive raw materials. Herein, we established an 
artificial biosynthetic pathway for converting glucose to 2-APD in a 
metabolically engineered Escherichia coli. This artificial pathway employs an 
engineered heterogeneous aminotransferase RtxA for diverting dihydroxyacetone 
phosphate to generate 2-APD phosphate and an endogenous phosphatase for 
converting it into the target product 2-APD. Through fine-tuning the activity 
and solubility of RtxA for efficiently extending the glycolysis pathway, 
enhancing the metabolic recycling of amino-containing substrate supply via 
nitrogen-borrowing, and unlocking the dephosphorylation involved in the 
downstream pathway, the best metabolically engineered E. coli strain LYC-5 was 
constructed stepwise. Under aerobic conditions, a fed-batch fermentation of the 
strain LYC-5 produced 14.6 g/L 2-APD with a productivity of 0.122 g/L/h in a 6-L 
bioreactor, which was the highest reported titer to the best of our knowledge. 
This work demonstrates the great potential to provide an environmentally 
friendly and efficient approach for 2-APD production.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00466
PMID: 30781944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Zhonghua Jie He He Hu Xi Za Zhi. 2001 Sep;24(9):548-50.

[Construction and immunogenicity of DNA vaccine encoding secreted form of Ag85B 
protein of Mycobacterium tuberculosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Fan X(1), Xu Z, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 
710032, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct the recombinant eukaryotic plasmid DNA expression vector 
encoding Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen 85B (Ag85B) and to investigate its 
immunogenicity.
METHODS: The gene encoding secreted form of Ag85B was amplified by polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) from genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Ra strain, and 
was inserted into sites cut with Hind III plus EcoR I of eukaryotic expression 
vector pcDNA3 after restriction endonuclease digestion. The gene fragment 
encoding secreted form of Ag85B was inserted into the vector of E. coli JM109 
strain and was confirmed by restriction endonuclease digestion. After 4 weeks 
since BALB/c mice were vaccinated by recombinant eukaryotic expressing vector, 
dot blotting and ELISA were used to detect the serum antibody against Ag85B and 
its titer.
RESULTS: Recombinant eukaryotic expressing vector, namely pTB30s, constructed 
successfully based on the gene encoding secreted form of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis Ag85B; pTB30s induced high titer specific antibody against Ag85B in 
immunized mice.
CONCLUSION: pTB30s as DNA vaccine should be further studied to confirm its 
stimulating role in cell-mediated immune responses in TB prevention.

PMID: 11758171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2006 Dec;14(12):890-3.

[Antigenicity of hepatitis C virus F protein and serum prevalence of anti-F in 
HCV-infected patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Shao SW(1), Wu WB, Yu JG, Zhao P, Qi ZT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, PLA Key Laboratory for Medical Microbiology, 
Second Military Medical University, Shanghai 200433, China.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the antigenicity of hepatitis C virus (HCV) F protein and 
investigate serum prevalence of anti-F in HCV-infected patients.
METHODS: Eleven pairs of overlapping primers were used to synthesize the 
full-length HCV f gene, from which the truncated HCV f65 gene fragment was 
amplified by PCR. HCV f65 gene was then cloned into pET32a(+), and transformed 
into E. coli strain Plyss (DE3). This recombinant E.coli was induced by IPTG for 
the production of HCV F65 protein. The expressed HCV F65 protein, purified by 
Ni-NTA agarose, was further used in ELISA to detect serum anti-F, and to 
immunize rabbits for making polyclonal anti-F. The rabbit polyclonal anti-F was 
purified by Staphylococcus aureus protein A agarose.
RESULTS: After recombinant pET32a(+)-f65 was constructed successfully, HCV F65 
protein was expressed and purified. The purified HCV F65 protein was used as a 
capture antigen in ELISA to detect serum anti-F in HCV infected patients (n = 
30). The result showed that the mean A450 value and the positive rate of serum 
anti-F were 0.125+/-0.061 and 63.3%, respectively. The rabbit-derived polyclonal 
anti-F reacted specifically with HCV F65 protein, of which the titer was 
1:30,000.
CONCLUSION: Our expressed HCV F65 protein is of antigenicity, and can be used to 
determine serum anti-F. Anti-F IgG does exist in the sera of the HCV-infected 
patients. Moreover, the rabbit-derived polyclonal anti-F can be used to detect 
HCV F protein.

PMID: 17196130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun. 2011 Sep 1;67(Pt 9):1006-9. 
doi: 10.1107/S1744309111022159. Epub 2011 Aug 13.

Expression of proteins in Escherichia coli as fusions with maltose-binding 
protein to rescue non-expressed targets in a high-throughput protein-expression 
and purification pipeline.

Hewitt SN(1), Choi R, Kelley A, Crowther GJ, Napuli AJ, Van Voorhis WC.

Author information:
(1)Seattle Structural Genomics Center for Infectious Disease (SSGCID), 
University of Washington, WA 98195, USA.

Despite recent advances, the expression of heterologous proteins in Escherichia 
coli for crystallization remains a nontrivial challenge. The present study 
investigates the efficacy of maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusion as a general 
strategy for rescuing the expression of target proteins. From a group of 
sequence-verified clones with undetectable levels of protein expression in an E. 
coli T7 expression system, 95 clones representing 16 phylogenetically diverse 
organisms were selected for recloning into a chimeric expression vector with an 
N-terminal histidine-tagged MBP. PCR-amplified inserts were annealed into an 
identical ligation-independent cloning region in an MBP-fusion vector and were 
analyzed for expression and solubility by high-throughput nickel-affinity 
binding. This approach yielded detectable expression of 72% of the clones; 
soluble expression was visible in 62%. However, the solubility of most proteins 
was marginal to poor upon cleavage of the MBP tag. This study offers large-scale 
evidence that MBP can improve the soluble expression of previously 
non-expressing proteins from a variety of eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. 
While the behavior of the cleaved proteins was disappointing, further 
refinements in MBP tagging may permit the more widespread use of MBP-fusion 
proteins in crystallographic studies.

DOI: 10.1107/S1744309111022159
PMCID: PMC3169393
PMID: 21904041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nanomedicine. 2020 Oct;29:102255. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2020.102255. Epub 2020 Jun 
29.

Impact of the expression system on the immune responses to self-assembling 
protein nanoparticles (SAPNs) displaying HIV-1 V1V2 loop.

Karch CP(1), Paquin-Proulx D(2), Eller MA(3), Matyas GR(4), Burkhard P(5), Beck 
Z(6).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Silver Spring, MD; Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military 
Medicine, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: ckarch@hivresearch.org.
(2)U.S. Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Silver Spring, MD; Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military 
Medicine, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: dpaquin-proulx@hivresearch.org.
(3)U.S. Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Silver Spring, MD; Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military 
Medicine, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: meller@hivresearch.org.
(4)U.S. Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Silver Spring, MD. Electronic address: gmatyas@hivresearch.org.
(5)Alpha-O Peptides, Riehen, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
peter.burkhard@aopeptides.ch.
(6)U.S. Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Silver Spring, MD; Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military 
Medicine, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: zbeck@hivresearch.org.

The V1V2 loop of the Env protein is a major target for HIV-1 vaccine development 
because in multiple studies antibodies to this region correlated with 
protection. Although SAPNs expressed in E. coli elicited anti-V1V2 antibodies, 
the Env protein is heavily glycosylated. In this study the technology has been 
adapted for expression in mammalian cells. SAPNs containing a V1V2 loop from a 
B-subtype transmitter/founder virus were expressed in E. coli, ExpiCHO, and 
Expi293 cells. Independent of the expression host, particles were well-formed. 
All SAPNs raised high titers of V1V2-specific antibodies, however, SAPNE.coli 
induced a mainly anti-V1 response, while SAPNExpiCHO and SAPNExpi293 induced a 
predominantly anti-V2 response. In an ADCP assay, sera from animals immunized 
with the SAPNExpiCHO or SAPNExpi293 induced a significant increase in phagocytic 
activity. This novel way of producing SAPNs displaying glycosylated epitopes 
could increase the antibody titer, functional activity, and shift the immune 
response towards the desired pathway.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2020.102255
PMID: 32615339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Vaccines (Basel). 2021 Mar 23;9(3):304. doi: 10.3390/vaccines9030304.

Synthesis of Escherichia coli OmpA Oral Nanoparticles and Evaluation of Immune 
Functions against the Major Etiologic Agent of Cow Mastitis.

Liu X(1)(2), Sun W(2), Wu N(2), Rong N(2), Kang C(2), Jian S(2), Chen C(2), Chen 
C(2), Zhang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling 712100, 
China.
(2)Chinese-German Joint Institute for Natural Product Research, College of 
Biological Science and Engineering, Shaanxi University of Technology, Hanzhong 
723000, China.

Escherichia coli is a major etiologic agent of cow mastitis, a condition that 
results in huge economic losses. There is a lack of an oral vaccine for cow 
mastitis. Previous studies have confirmed that the outer membrane protein A 
(OmpA) of E. coli is immunogenic and can be used for vaccine design. In the 
present study, OmpA was encapsulated into nanoparticles (NP-OmpA) for an oral 
vaccine for cow mastitis. Methods: OmpA was purified with Ni-NTA flow resin and 
encapsulated with chitosan (CS) to prepare NP-OmpA nanoparticles. The 
gastrointestinal tract was simulated in vitro (PBS, pH 1.2) to measure the 
protein release rate. The optimal preparation conditions for NP-OmpA were 
determined by analyzing the concentrations of OmpA and CS, magnetic mixing 
speed, mixing time, and the ratio of tripolyphosphate (TPP)/CS (w/w). NP-OmpA 
safety was assessed by function factors and histopathological examination of 
livers and kidneys. The immune activity of NP-OmpA was determined using qRT-PCR 
to assess immune-related gene expression, leukocyte phagocytosis of 
Staphylococcus aureus, ELISA to evaluate antiserum titer and immune recognition 
of E. coli, and the organ index. The immune protection function of NP-OmpA was 
assessed by the protection rate of NP-OmpA to E. coli in mice, qRT-PCR for 
inflammation-related gene expression, assay kits for antioxidant factors, and 
visceral injury in the histopathological sections. Results: NP-OmpA 
nanoparticles had a diameter of about 700 nm, loading efficiency (LE) of 79.27%, 
and loading capacity (LC) of 20.31%. The release rate of NP-OmpA (0~96 h) was 
less than 50% in vitro. The optimal preparation conditions for NP-OmpAs were 
OmpA protein concentration of 2 mg/mL, CS concentration of 5 mg/mL, TPP/CS (w/w) 
of 1:1, magnetic mixing speed of 150 r/min, and mixing time of 15 min. 
Histopathological sections and clinical analytes of uric acid (UA), creatinine 
(Cr), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), catalase 
(CAT), glutathione (GSH), and malondialdehyde (MDA) showed NP-OmpA did not 
damage mice livers or kidneys. NP-OmpA could enhance the immune-related gene 
expression of IFN-γ and HSP70 in the spleen, liver, and kidney and the leukocyte 
phagocytosis of S. aureus. The antiserum titer (1:3200) was obtained from mice 
immunized with NP-OmpA, which had an immune recognition effect to E. coli. The 
immune protection rate of NP-OmpA was 71.43% (p < 0.05) to E. coli. NP-OmpA 
could down-regulate the inflammation-related gene expression of TNF-a, IL-6, and 
IL-10 in the spleen, liver, and kidney, and the antioxidant factors MDA and SOD 
in the liver, and reduce injury in the liver and kidney of mice induced by E. 
coli. Conclusions: A novel NP-OmpA nanoparticle was encapsulated, and the 
optimal preparation conditions were determined. The NP-OmpA was safe and had 
good immune functions. They are expected to induce a response that resists 
infection with the major etiologic agent (E. coli) of cow mastitis.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines9030304
PMCID: PMC8005184
PMID: 33807110

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


750. ACS Synth Biol. 2021 Apr 16;10(4):716-723. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00501. Epub 
2021 Mar 24.

Anaerobic Conditioning of E. coli Cell Lysate for Enhanced In Vitro Protein 
Synthesis.

Tamiev BD(1), Dopp JL(2), Reuel NF(2).

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Department, Iowa State 
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, United States.
(2)Chemical and Biological Engineering Department, Iowa State University, Ames, 
Iowa 50011, United States.

Cell-free protein expression (CFPS) from E. coli cell lysate is an established 
chemical biology technique. Common efforts to improve synthesis capacity, such 
as strain engineering and process improvements, have overlooked the opportunity 
to increase productivity by reducing the dependence on limited, dissolved 
oxygen. Here we demonstrate conditioning E. coli cells for anaerobic respiration 
which increases the initial protein expression rate up to 4-fold and increases 
titer by 50% as compared to traditional aerobic cell lysate when using sfGFP as 
a reporter protein in CFPS reactions run at atmospheric conditions. This 
enhancement is even more significant when run in an oxygen-depleted environment, 
where anaerobic respiration preconditioned cells increase yield when 
supplemented with nitrite as a terminal electron acceptor (TEA). Furthermore, we 
test knockout mutants to determine key proteins responsible for enhancing the 
anaerobically prepared CFPS lysate. Further improvements could be made in 
preconditioning cells by increasing expression levels of critical pathway 
enzymes or by screening other TEA.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00501
PMCID: PMC8168642
PMID: 33760595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


751. Microb Cell Fact. 2013 Apr 22;12:37. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-37.

High throughput screening identifies disulfide isomerase DsbC as a very 
efficient partner for recombinant expression of small disulfide-rich proteins in 
E. coli.

Nozach H(1), Fruchart-Gaillard C, Fenaille F, Beau F, Ramos OH, Douzi B, Saez 
NJ, Moutiez M, Servent D, Gondry M, Thaï R, Cuniasse P, Vincentelli R, Dive V.

Author information:
(1)CEA, iBiTec-S, Service d'Ingénierie Moléculaire des Protéines, CEA Saclay, 
Gif sur Yvette F-91191, France. herve.nozach@cea.fr

BACKGROUND: Disulfide-rich proteins or DRPs are versatile bioactive compounds 
that encompass a wide variety of pharmacological, therapeutic, and/or 
biotechnological applications. Still, the production of DRPs in sufficient 
quantities is a major bottleneck for their complete structural or functional 
characterization. Recombinant expression of such small proteins containing 
multiple disulfide bonds in the bacteria E. coli is considered difficult and 
general methods and protocols, particularly on a high throughput scale, are 
limited.
RESULTS: Here we report a high throughput screening approach that allowed the 
systematic investigation of the solubilizing and folding influence of twelve 
cytoplasmic partners on 28 DRPs in the strains BL21 (DE3) pLysS, Origami B (DE3) 
pLysS and SHuffle® T7 Express lysY (1008 conditions). The screening identified 
the conditions leading to the successful soluble expression of the 28 DRPs 
selected for the study. Amongst 336 conditions tested per bacterial strain, 
soluble expression was detected in 196 conditions using the strain BL21 (DE3) 
pLysS, whereas only 44 and 50 conditions for soluble expression were identified 
for the strains Origami B (DE3) pLysS and SHuffle® T7 Express lysY respectively. 
To assess the redox states of the DRPs, the solubility screen was coupled with 
mass spectrometry (MS) to determine the exact masses of the produced DRPs or 
fusion proteins. To validate the results obtained at analytical scale, several 
examples of proteins expressed and purified to a larger scale are presented 
along with their MS and functional characterization.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that the production of soluble and functional DRPs 
with cytoplasmic partners is possible in E. coli. In spite of its reducing 
cytoplasm, BL21 (DE3) pLysS is more efficient than the Origami B (DE3) pLysS and 
SHuffle® T7 Express lysY trxB(-)/gor(-) strains for the production of DRPs in 
fusion with solubilizing partners. However, our data suggest that oxidation of 
the proteins occurs ex vivo. Our protocols allow the production of a large 
diversity of DRPs using DsbC as a fusion partner, leading to pure active DRPs at 
milligram scale in many cases. These results open up new possibilities for the 
study and development of DRPs with therapeutic or biotechnological interest 
whose production was previously a limitation.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-37
PMCID: PMC3668227
PMID: 23607455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Methods Enzymol. 2015;559:127-39. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2014.11.005. Epub 2015 May 
16.

Purification of GST-Tagged Proteins.

Schäfer F(1), Seip N(1), Maertens B(1), Block H(1), Kubicek J(2).

Author information:
(1)QIAGEN GmbH, Research and Development, Qiagenstrasse 1, 40724 Hilden, 
Germany.
(2)QIAGEN GmbH, Research and Development, Qiagenstrasse 1, 40724 Hilden, 
Germany. Electronic address: jan.kubicek@qiagen.com.

This protocol describes the purification of recombinant proteins fused to 
glutathione S-transferase (GST, GST-tagged proteins) by Glutathione Affinity 
purification. The GST tag frequently increases the solubility of the fused 
protein of interest and thus enables its purification and subsequent functional 
characterization. The GST-tagged protein specifically binds to glutathione 
immobilized to a matrix (e.g., agarose) and can be easily separated from a cell 
lysate by a bind-wash-elute procedure. GST-tagged proteins are often used to 
study protein-protein interactions, again making use of glutathione affinity in 
a procedure called a GST pull-down assay. The protocol is designed to process 
200 ml of E. coli culture expressing intermediate to high amounts of a 
GST-tagged protein (~25 mg l(-1)). Depending on the expression rate or the 
available culture volume, the scale can be increased or decreased linearly. The 
protocol can also be used to purify GST-tagged proteins from other expression 
systems, such as insect or mammalian cells. Tips are provided to aid in 
modifying certain steps if proteins shall be recovered from alternative 
expression systems.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2014.11.005
PMID: 26096507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nat Commun. 2019 Aug 21;10(1):3751. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-11793-7.

Programmable biomolecular switches for rewiring flux in Escherichia coli.

Gao C(1)(2), Hou J(1)(2), Xu P(3), Guo L(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Hu G(1)(2), Ye 
C(1)(2), Edwards H(3), Chen J(2), Chen W(1), Liu L(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, 214122, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(3)Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering, University of Maryland 
Baltimore County, Baltimore, Maryland, 21250, USA.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, 214122, China. mingll@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122, China. mingll@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(6)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214122, China. mingll@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Synthetic biology aims to develop programmable tools to perform complex 
functions such as redistributing metabolic flux in industrial microorganisms. 
However, development of protein-level circuits is limited by availability of 
designable, orthogonal, and composable tools. Here, with the aid of engineered 
viral proteases and proteolytic signals, we build two sets of controllable 
protein units, which can be rationally configured to three tools. Using a 
protease-based dynamic regulation circuit to fine-tune metabolic flow, we 
achieve 12.63 g L-1 shikimate titer in minimal medium without inducer. In 
addition, the carbon catabolite repression is alleviated by protease-based 
inverter-mediated flux redistribution under multiple carbon sources. By 
coordinating reaction rate using a protease-based oscillator in E. coli, we 
achieve D-xylonate productivity of 7.12 g L-1 h-1 with a titer of 199.44 g L-1. 
These results highlight the applicability of programmable protein switches to 
metabolic engineering for valuable chemicals production.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-11793-7
PMCID: PMC6704175
PMID: 31434894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


754. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2013 Jun;29(4):371-5.

[Prokaryotic expression and purification of the capsid protein of porcine getah 
virus and preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang Y(1), He DN, Zhang XM, Zhou B, Chen PY.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Entry-exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau, Nanjing 210001, China. 
jiangyan@jsciq.gov.cn

Based on a pair of specific primers, a 804-bp fragment was amplified from the 
plasmid pT-Cap containing Cap gene of Porcine Getah Virus(PGETV) and cloned into 
the prokaryotic expression vector pCold I which carried the His tag, this 
recombinant plasmid was then determined by enzyme digestion, PCR and DNA 
sequencing. This recombinant plasmid pCold-Cap was transformed into E. coli 
Rosetta 2, and PGETV Cap fusion protein was expressed through IPTG induction. 
The results showed that the Cap gene obtained efficient and soluble expression 
in Rosetta 2 induced by 0. Immol/L IPTG under 15"C for 24h, the expression 
quantity was 40. 2%. The product had a molecular mass about 32. 3kD as expected. 
The target protein was separated in gel slices and used to immunize Balb/c mice. 
The polyclonal antibody with high titer against Cap protein specifically 
analyzed by Western blot was obtained. The successful preparation of the 
polyclonal antibody laid the foundation for the further study on the detection 
and identification of PGETV.

PMID: 23894999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Proteome Res. 2005 Nov-Dec;4(6):2137-47. doi: 10.1021/pr050230i.

Dual expression system suitable for high-throughput fluorescence-based screening 
and production of soluble proteins.

Braud S(1), Moutiez M, Belin P, Abello N, Drevet P, Zinn-Justin S, Courçon M, 
Masson C, Dassa J, Charbonnier JB, Boulain JC, Ménez A, Genet R, Gondry M.

Author information:
(1)CEA/Saclay, Département d'Ingénierie et d'Etudes des Protéines, F-91191 
Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France.

Many studies that aim to characterize the proteome structurally or functionally 
require the production of pure protein in a high-throughput format. We have 
developed a fast and flexible integrated system for cloning, protein expression 
in Escherichia coli, solubility screening and purification that can be 
completely automated in a 96-well microplate format. We used recombination 
cloning in custom-designed vectors including (i) a (His)(6) tag-encoding 
sequence, (ii) a variable solubilizing partner gene, (iii) the DNA sequence 
corresponding to the TEV protease cleavage site, (iv) the gene (or DNA fragment) 
of interest, (v) a suppressible amber stop codon, and (vi) an S.tag 
peptide-encoding sequence. First, conditions of bacterial culture in microplates 
(250 microL) were optimized to obtain expression and solubility patterns 
identical to those obtained in a 1-L flask (100-mL culture). Such conditions 
enabled the screening of various parameters in addition to the fusion partners 
(E. coli strains, temperature, inducer...). Second, expression of fusion 
proteins in amber suppressor strains allowed quantification of soluble and 
insoluble proteins by fluorescence through the detection of the S.tag. This 
technique is faster and more sensitive than other commonly used methods (dot 
blots, Western blots, SDS-PAGE). The presence of the amber suppressor tRNA was 
shown to affect neither the expression pattern nor the solubility of the target 
proteins. Third, production of the most interesting soluble fusion proteins, as 
detected by our screening method, could be performed in nonsuppressor strains. 
After cleavage with the TEV protease, the target proteins were obtained in a 
native form with a unique additional N-terminal glycine.

DOI: 10.1021/pr050230i
PMID: 16335960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Mar 22;113(12):3209-14. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1515826113. Epub 2016 Mar 7.

Overcoming heterologous protein interdependency to optimize P450-mediated Taxol 
precursor synthesis in Escherichia coli.

Biggs BW(1), Lim CG(2), Sagliani K(2), Shankar S(2), Stephanopoulos G(3), De Mey 
M(4), Ajikumar PK(5).

Author information:
(1)Manus Biosynthesis, Cambridge, MA 02138; Masters in Biotechnology Program, 
Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, IL 60208;
(2)Manus Biosynthesis, Cambridge, MA 02138;
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139;
(4)Manus Biosynthesis, Cambridge, MA 02138; Department of Chemical Engineering, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139; Laboratory for 
Industrial Biotechnology and Biocatalysis, Ghent University, Coupure Links 653, 
B-9000, Belgium marjan.demey@ugent.be pkaji@manusbio.com.
(5)Manus Biosynthesis, Cambridge, MA 02138; marjan.demey@ugent.be 
pkaji@manusbio.com.

Recent advances in metabolic engineering have demonstrated the potential to 
exploit biological chemistry for the synthesis of complex molecules. Much of the 
progress to date has leveraged increasingly precise genetic tools to control the 
transcription and translation of enzymes for superior biosynthetic pathway 
performance. However, applying these approaches and principles to the synthesis 
of more complex natural products will require a new set of tools for enabling 
various classes of metabolic chemistries (i.e., cyclization, oxygenation, 
glycosylation, and halogenation) in vivo. Of these diverse chemistries, 
oxygenation is one of the most challenging and pivotal for the synthesis of 
complex natural products. Here, using Taxol as a model system, we use nature's 
favored oxygenase, the cytochrome P450, to perform high-level oxygenation 
chemistry in Escherichia coli. An unexpected coupling of P450 expression and the 
expression of upstream pathway enzymes was discovered and identified as a key 
obstacle for functional oxidative chemistry. By optimizing P450 expression, 
reductase partner interactions, and N-terminal modifications, we achieved the 
highest reported titer of oxygenated taxanes (∼570 ± 45 mg/L) in E. coli. 
Altogether, this study establishes E. coli as a tractable host for P450 
chemistry, highlights the potential magnitude of protein interdependency in the 
context of synthetic biology and metabolic engineering, and points to a 
promising future for the microbial synthesis of complex chemical entities.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1515826113
PMCID: PMC4812725
PMID: 26951651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: C.G.L., S.S., 
G.S., M.D.M., and P.K.A. have financial interests in Manus Biosynthesis, Inc.


757. FEBS Open Bio. 2014 Dec 24;5:42-55. doi: 10.1016/j.fob.2014.12.002. eCollection 
2015.

Soluble cysteine-rich tick saliva proteins Salp15 and Iric-1 from E. coli.

Kolb P(1), Vorreiter J(2), Habicht J(3), Bentrop D(4), Wallich R(3), Nassal 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Freiburg, Internal Medicine 2/Molecular Biology, 
Hugstetter Str. 55, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany ; University of Freiburg, 
Biological Faculty, Schänzlestr. 1, D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.
(2)University Hospital Freiburg, Internal Medicine 2/Molecular Biology, 
Hugstetter Str. 55, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany.
(3)University Hospital Heidelberg, Institute of Immunology, Im Neuenheimer Feld 
305, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)University of Freiburg, Institute of Physiology, Hermann-Herder-Str. 7, 
D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.

Ticks transmit numerous pathogens, including borreliae, which cause Lyme 
disease. Tick saliva contains a complex mix of anti-host defense factors, 
including the immunosuppressive cysteine-rich secretory glycoprotein Salp15 from 
Ixodes scapularis ticks and orthologs like Iric-1 from Ixodes ricinus. All 
tick-borne microbes benefit from the immunosuppression at the tick bite site; in 
addition, borreliae exploit the binding of Salp15 to their outer surface protein 
C (OspC) for enhanced transmission. Hence, Salp15 proteins are attractive 
targets for anti-tick vaccines that also target borreliae. However, recombinant 
Salp proteins are not accessible in sufficient quantity for either vaccine 
manufacturing or for structural characterization. As an alternative to low-yield 
eukaryotic systems, we investigated cytoplasmic expression in Escherichia coli, 
even though this would not result in glycosylation. His-tagged Salp15 was 
efficiently expressed but insoluble. Among the various solubility-enhancing 
protein tags tested, DsbA was superior, yielding milligram amounts of soluble, 
monomeric Salp15 and Iric-1 fusions. Easily accessible mutants enabled epitope 
mapping of two monoclonal antibodies that, importantly, cross-react with 
glycosylated Salp15, and revealed interaction sites with OspC. Free Salp15 and 
Iric-1 from protease-cleavable fusions, despite limited solubility, allowed the 
recording of (1)H-(15)N 2D NMR spectra, suggesting partial folding of the 
wild-type proteins but not of Cys-free variants. Fusion to the NMR-compatible 
GB1 domain sufficiently enhanced solubility to reveal first secondary structure 
elements in (13)C/(15)N double-labeled Iric-1. Together, E. coli expression of 
appropriately fused Salp15 proteins may be highly valuable for the molecular 
characterization of the function and eventually the 3D structure of these 
medically relevant tick proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fob.2014.12.002
PMCID: PMC4305620
PMID: 25628987


758. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2003 Sep;19(5):480-2.

[Construction and expression of prokaryotic expression vector of GAP-43 and 
preparation of monoclonal antibody against GAP-43].

[Article in Chinese]

Duan XL(1), Huang WJ, Wang BR, Song JF, Jin WL, Guo X, Ju G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, 
China.

AIM: To express the growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43)in prokaryotic cells 
and prepare monoclonal antibody( mAb)against GAP-43.
METHODS: Full length sequence of GAP-43 gene was amplified from the plasmid 
containing pGAP-43cDNA and was cloned into the expression vector 
pGEX-4T-I.GST-GAP-43 fusion protein was expressed in E. coil under IPTG 
induction. Expressed fusion protein was purified by glutathine agarose 
chromagraphy, Using purified protein as an immunogen, mAb against GAP-43 was 
prepared.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid containing the target gene was constructed 
successfully. The fusion protein was expressed in E. coli in soluble form. The 
titer of anti-GAP-43mAb in ascites was 1: 10'. The Ig subclass and subtype of 
the mAb was IgG2a and K type, respectively. Specificity of the mAb was confirmed 
by ELISA, Western blot and immunofluorescence technique.
CONCLUSION: The anti-GAP-43 mAb obtained has strong specificity and high titer, 
which provides an useful reagent for further studying the function of GAP-43 in 
nervous system.

PMID: 15169663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Biochem. 2011 Jul;150(1):73-81. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvr042. Epub 2011 Apr 9.

Statistical analysis of features associated with protein expression/solubility 
in an in vivo Escherichia coli expression system and a wheat germ cell-free 
expression system.

Hirose S(1), Kawamura Y, Yokota K, Kuroita T, Natsume T, Komiya K, Tsutsumi T, 
Suwa Y, Isogai T, Goshima N, Noguchi T.

Author information:
(1)Computational Biology Research Center (CBRC), National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tokyo, Japan. 
hirose-shuichi@aist.go.jp

Recombinant protein technology is an important tool in many industrial and 
pharmacological applications. Although the success rate of obtaining soluble 
proteins is relatively low, knowledge of protein expression/solubility under 
'standard' conditions may increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of 
proteomics studies. In this study, we conducted a genome-scale experiment to 
assess the overexpression and the solubility of human full-length cDNA in an in 
vivo Escherichia coli expression system and a wheat germ cell-free expression 
system. We evaluated the influences of sequence and structural features on 
protein expression/solubility in each system and estimated a minimal set of 
features associated with them. A comparison of the feature sets related to 
protein expression/solubility in the in vivo Escherichia coli expression system 
revealed that the structural information was strongly associated with protein 
expression, rather than protein solubility. Moreover, a significant difference 
was found in the number of features associated with protein solubility in the 
two expression systems.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvr042
PMID: 21478485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. PLoS One. 2016 May 23;11(5):e0156106. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156106. 
eCollection 2016.

High Level Expression and Purification of Recombinant Proteins from Escherichia 
coli with AK-TAG.

Luo D(1), Wen C(1), Zhao R(1), Liu X(1), Liu X(1), Cui J(1), Liang JG(2), Liang 
P(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Clover Biopharmaceuticals, Chengdu, China.
(3)GenHunter Corporation, Grassmere Park, Nashville, United States of America.

Adenylate kinase (AK) from Escherichia coli was used as both solubility and 
affinity tag for recombinant protein production. When fused to the N-terminus of 
a target protein, an AK fusion protein could be expressed in soluble form and 
purified to near homogeneity in a single step from Blue-Sepherose via affinity 
elution with micromolar concentration of P1, P5- di (adenosine-5') 
pentaphosphate (Ap5A), a transition-state substrate analog of AK. Unlike any 
other affinity tags, the level of a recombinant protein expression in soluble 
form and its yield of recovery during each purification step could be readily 
assessed by AK enzyme activity in near real time. Coupled to a His-Tag installed 
at the N-terminus and a thrombin cleavage site at the C terminus of AK, the 
streamlined method, here we dubbed AK-TAG, could also allow convenient 
expression and retrieval of a cleaved recombinant protein in high yield and 
purity via dual affinity purification steps. Thus AK-TAG is a new addition to 
the arsenal of existing affinity tags for recombinant protein expression and 
purification, and is particularly useful where soluble expression and high 
degree of purification are at stake.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156106
PMCID: PMC4877045
PMID: 27214237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: These authors (PL and JGL) 
are affiliated with commercial companies: Clover Biopharmaceuticals and 
GenHunter Corporation. On behalf of all authors, the corresponding author 
declares that commercial affiliations do not alter the adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data.


761. J Chromatogr A. 2009 Jun 12;1216(24):4877-86. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2009.04.043. 
Epub 2009 Apr 18.

Adsorptive refolding of a highly disulfide-bonded inclusion body protein using 
anion-exchange chromatography.

Chen Y(1), Leong SS.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, Nanyang Technological 
University, 62 Nanyang Drive, Singapore 637459, Singapore.

alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) is a prospective biopharmaceutical candidate currently 
undergoing advanced-stage clinical trials for autoimmune indications. The high 
AFP expression yields in the form of inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli 
renders the inclusion body route potentially advantageous for process scale 
commercial manufacture, if high-throughput refolding can be achieved. This study 
reports the successful development of an 'anion-exchange chromatography'-based 
refolding process for recombinant human AFP (rhAFP), which carries the 
challenges of contaminant spectrum and molecule complexity. rhAFP was readily 
refolded on-column at rhAFP concentrations unachievable with dilution refolding 
due to viscosity and solubility constraints. DEAE-FF functioned as a refolding 
enhancer to achieve rhAFP refolding yield of 28% and product purity of 95% in 
3h, at 1mg/ml protein refolding concentration. Optimization of both refolding 
and chromatography column operation parameters (i.e. resin chemistry, column 
geometry, redox potential and feed conditioning) significantly improved rhAFP 
refolding efficiency. Compared to dilution refolding, on-column rhAFP refolding 
productivity was 9-fold higher, while that of off-column refolding was more than 
an order of magnitude higher. Successful demonstration that a simple 
anion-exchange column can, in a single step, readily refold and purify 
semi-crude rhAFP comprising 16 disulfide bonds, will certainly extend the 
application of column refolding to a myriad of complex industrial inclusion body 
proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2009.04.043
PMID: 19419725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Dec;26(12):1241-5.

[Chicken SREBP1 gene antiserums preparation and its tissue expression 
characterization].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang L(1), Na W, Wang YX, Wang YB, Wang N, Li YM, Li H.

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northeast Agricultural University, 
Harbin 150030, China. wangli930@yahoo.com

AIM: The aim of this study was to prepare the antiserums against chicken sterol 
regulatory element binding protein1 (SREBP1), and to analyze the expression of 
SREBP1 in chicken tissues.
METHODS: The nuclear import sequence of SREBP1 was analyzed using the DNAStar 
programs to predict its major antigen epitopes, the fragment coding for SREBP1 
major antigen epitopes (832-1 302 bp) was amplified by RT-PCR and inserted into 
pGEX-4T-1 to construct the expression vector pGEX-4T/SREBP1. The recombinant 
GST/SREBP1 was expressed in E.coli with IPTG induction and purified by 
Glutathione Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography. The purified recombinant 
GST/SREBP1 was used as immunogen in rabbits, and the titer and specificity of 
SREBP1 antiserums were detected by ELISA and Western blot. The tissue expression 
of chicken SREBP1 was analyzed with the antiserums.
RESULTS: The titer of the antiserum determined by ELISA was 1:102 400, and the 
antiserums exhibited a high specificity through Western blot. Tissue expression 
analysis showed that the expression of chicken SREBP1 was much higher in 
abdominal adipose tissue and heart, but lower in liver, muscle stomach, 
duodenum, spleen, kidney, and no signal was detected in breast and leg muscle. 
The SREBP1 expression characteristics between fat and lean broiler lines was 
also detected, and the result showed that SREBP1 expressed significantly higher 
in the abdominal adipose tissue of fat line than that in lean line (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The antiserum against chicken SREBP1 prepared in this study had high 
titer and specificity. SREBP1 was highly expressed in abdominal adipose tissue 
of broilers. Compared to lean broiler line, SREBP1 was expressed higher in the 
fat line.

PMID: 21138692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Feb 3;19(1):20. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-1291-x.

Redesign and reconstruction of a steviol-biosynthetic pathway for enhanced 
production of steviol in Escherichia coli.

Moon JH(1), Lee K(1), Lee JH(1), Lee PC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Science and Technology and Department of Applied 
Chemistry and Biological Engineering, Ajou University, Woncheon-dong, 
Yeongtong-gu, Suwon, 16499, South Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular Science and Technology and Department of Applied 
Chemistry and Biological Engineering, Ajou University, Woncheon-dong, 
Yeongtong-gu, Suwon, 16499, South Korea. pclee@ajou.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Steviol glycosides such as stevioside have attracted the attention 
of the food and beverage industry. Recently, efforts were made to produce these 
natural sweeteners in microorganisms using metabolic engineering. Nonetheless, 
the steviol titer is relatively low in metabolically engineered microorganisms, 
and therefore a steviol-biosynthetic pathway in heterologous microorganisms 
needs to be metabolically optimized. The purpose of this study was to redesign 
and reconstruct a steviol-biosynthetic pathway via synthetic-biology approaches 
in order to overproduce steviol in Escherichia coli.
RESULTS: A genome-engineered E. coli strain, which coexpressed 5' untranslated 
region (UTR)-engineered geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase, copalyl diphosphate 
synthase, and kaurene synthase, produced 623.6 ± 3.0 mg/L ent-kaurene in batch 
fermentation. Overexpression of 5'-UTR-engineered, N-terminally modified kaurene 
oxidase of Arabidopsis thaliana yielded 41.4 ± 5 mg/L ent-kaurenoic acid. 
Enhanced ent-kaurenoic acid production (50.7 ± 9.8 mg/L) was achieved by 
increasing the cellular NADPH/NADP+ ratio. The expression of a fusion protein, 
UtrCYP714A2-AtCPR2 derived from A. thaliana, where trCYP714A2 was 
5'-UTR-engineered and N-terminally modified, gave 38.4 ± 1.7 mg/L steviol in 
batch fermentation.
CONCLUSIONS: 5'-UTR engineering, the fusion protein approach, and redox 
balancing improved the steviol titer in flask fermentation and bioreactor 
fermentation. The expression engineering of steviol-biosynthetic enzymes and the 
genome engineering described here can serve as the basis for producing 
terpenoids-including steviol glycosides and carotenoids-in microorganisms.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-1291-x
PMCID: PMC6998089
PMID: 32013995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


764. J Am Chem Soc. 2014 Aug 20;136(33):11644-54. doi: 10.1021/ja506664a. Epub 2014 
Aug 8.

Synthesis and accumulation of aromatic aldehydes in an engineered strain of 
Escherichia coli.

Kunjapur AM(1), Tarasova Y, Prather KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, ‡Synthetic Biology Engineering Research 
Center (SynBERC), §Microbiology Graduate Program, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology , Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, United States.

Aromatic aldehydes are useful in numerous applications, especially as flavors, 
fragrances, and pharmaceutical precursors. However, microbial synthesis of 
aldehydes is hindered by rapid, endogenous, and redundant conversion of 
aldehydes to their corresponding alcohols. We report the construction of an 
Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655 strain with reduced aromatic aldehyde reduction 
(RARE) that serves as a platform for aromatic aldehyde biosynthesis. Six genes 
with reported activity on the model substrate benzaldehyde were rationally 
targeted for deletion: three genes that encode aldo-keto reductases and three 
genes that encode alcohol dehydrogenases. Upon expression of a recombinant 
carboxylic acid reductase in the RARE strain and addition of benzoate during 
growth, benzaldehyde remained in the culture after 24 h, with less than 12% 
conversion of benzaldehyde to benzyl alcohol. Although individual overexpression 
results demonstrated that all six genes could contribute to benzaldehyde 
reduction in vivo, additional experiments featuring subset deletion strains 
revealed that two of the gene deletions were dispensable under the conditions 
tested. The engineered strain was next investigated for the production of 
vanillin from vanillate and succeeded in preventing formation of the byproduct 
vanillyl alcohol. A pathway for the biosynthesis of vanillin directly from 
glucose was introduced and resulted in a 55-fold improvement in vanillin titer 
when using the RARE strain versus the wild-type strain. Finally, synthesis of 
the chiral pharmaceutical intermediate L-phenylacetylcarbinol (L-PAC) was 
demonstrated from benzaldehyde and glucose upon expression of a recombinant 
mutant pyruvate decarboxylase in the RARE strain. Beyond allowing accumulation 
of aromatic aldehydes as end products in E. coli, the RARE strain expands the 
classes of chemicals that can be produced microbially via aldehyde 
intermediates.

DOI: 10.1021/ja506664a
PMID: 25076127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 16;8(12):e83781. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083781. 
eCollection 2013.

Soluble expression of human leukemia inhibitory factor with protein disulfide 
isomerase in Escherichia coli and its simple purification.

Song JA, Koo BK(1), Chong SH(1), Kim K(2), Choi DK(2), Thi Vu TT(1), Nguyen 
MT(1), Jeong B(1), Ryu HB(1), Kim I(2), Jang YJ(1), Robinson RC(3), Choe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Graduate School of Medical Science and Engineering Korea Advanced Institute 
of Science and Technology, Daejeon, South Korea.
(3)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, ASTAR (Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research), Biopolis, Singapore, Singapore ; Department of 
Biochemistry, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2014;9(1). 
doi:10.1371/annotation/4b2acdb5-5bab-4bca-8fbc-f9f293b38ee0. Jung, A Song 
[corrected to Song, Jung-A].

Human leukemia inhibitory factor (hLIF) is a multifunctional cytokine that is 
essential for maintaining the pluripotency of embryonic stem cells. hLIF may be 
also be useful in aiding fertility through its effects on increasing the 
implantation rate of fertilized eggs. Thus these applications in biomedical 
research and clinical medicine create a high demand for bioactive hLIF. However, 
production of active hLIF is problematic since eukaryotic cells demonstrate 
limited expression and prokaryotic cells produce insoluble protein. Here, we 
have adopted a hybrid protein disulfide isomerase design to increase the 
solubility of hLIF in Escherichia coli. Low temperature expression of hLIF fused 
to the b'a' domain of protein disulfide isomerase (PDIb'a') increased the 
soluble expression in comparison to controls. A simple purification protocol for 
bioactive hLIF was established that includes removal of the PDIb'a' domain by 
cleavage by TEV protease. The resulting hLIF, which contains one extra glycine 
residue at the N-terminus, was highly pure and demonstrated endotoxin levels 
below 0.05 EU/μg. The presence of an intramolecular disulfide bond was 
identified using mass spectroscopy. This purified hLIF effectively maintained 
the pluripotency of a murine embryonic stem cell line. Thus we have developed an 
effective method to produce a pure bioactive version of hLIF in E. coli for use 
in biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083781
PMCID: PMC3865251
PMID: 24358310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


766. Vaccine. 2011 Aug 11;29(35):5978-85. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.06.039. Epub 
2011 Jun 28.

Co-expression of tetanus toxin fragment C in Escherichia coli with thioredoxin 
and its evaluation as an effective subunit vaccine candidate.

Yu YZ(1), Gong ZW, Ma Y, Zhang SM, Zhu HQ, Wang WB, Du Y, Wang S, Yu WY, Sun ZW.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, 20 Dongdajie Street, Fengtai District, 
Beijing 100071, PR China. yunzhouyu@163.com

The receptor-binding domain of tetanus toxin (THc), which mediates the binding 
of the toxin to the nerve cells, is a candidate subunit vaccine against tetanus. 
In this study one synthetic gene encoding the THc was constructed and highly 
expressed in Escherichia coli by co-expression with thioredoxin (Trx). The 
purified THc-vaccinated mice were completely protected against an active toxin 
challenge in mouse models of disease and the potency of two doses of THc was 
comparable to that of three doses of toxoid vaccine. And a solid-phase assay 
showed that the anti-THc sera inhibited the binding of THc or toxoid to the 
ganglioside GT1b as the anti-tetanus toxoid sera. Furthermore, mice were 
vaccinated once or twice at four different dosages of THc and a dose-response 
was observed in both the antibody titer and protective efficacy with increasing 
dosage of THc and number of vaccinations. The data presented in the report 
showed that the recombinant THc expressed in E. coli is efficacious in 
protecting mice against challenge with tetanus toxin suggesting that the THc 
protein may be developed into a human subunit vaccine candidate designed for the 
prevention of tetanus.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.06.039
PMID: 21718736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2003 Mar;20(1):64-7.

[Recombinant human brain myelin basic protein and its antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu J(1), Chen J, Wang R, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)School of Preclinical and Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu 
610041.

We constructed the expression vector by inserting 21.5 KDa MBP human brain 
full-length cDNA coding sequence digested with restriction enzyme EcoR I and Sal 
I into downstream of pGEX-5T expression vector. The recombinant vector p5TMP was 
transformed into E. coli and the positive clonies were selected and incubated in 
LB medium induced by IPTG (isopropyl- -D-thiogalactoside). A new polypeptide 
band with apparent molecular weight 42 KDa was detected in transformed cell 
lysates by SDS-PAGE. Western blotting analysis confirmed that this fusion 
protein reacted specifically with antibodies to MBP, the expression level of MBP 
was about 414.6 mg/L medium estimated by immuno-dot blot, ELISA and absorbance 
scanning. Newzealand rabbits were immunized by subcutaneous injection of the 
purified recombinant MBP. The titer was obtained at 1:16 after 5 injections. The 
specificity of the antibody to MBP was confirmed by immuno-blot and Western 
blotting.

PMID: 12744165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2011 Jul;77(13):4603-9. doi: 10.1128/AEM.05259-11. Epub 
2011 May 6.

Effect of chemical chaperones in improving the solubility of recombinant 
proteins in Escherichia coli.

Prasad S(1), Khadatare PB, Roy I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research (NIPER), Sector 67, S.A.S. Nagar, Punjab 160 062, India.

The recovery of active proteins from inclusion bodies usually involves 
chaotrope-induced denaturation, followed by refolding of the unfolded protein. 
The efficiency of renaturation is low, leading to reduced yield of the final 
product. In this work, we report that recombinant proteins can be overexpressed 
in the soluble form in the host expression system by incorporating compatible 
solutes during protein expression. Green fluorescent protein (GFP), which was 
otherwise expressed as inclusion bodies, could be made to partition off into the 
soluble fraction when sorbitol and arginine, but not ethylene glycol, were 
present in the growth medium. Arginine and sorbitol increased the production of 
soluble protein, while ethylene glycol did not. Production of ATP increased in 
the presence of sorbitol and arginine, but not ethylene glycol. A control 
experiment with fructose addition indicated that protein solubilization was not 
due to a simple ATP increase. We have successfully reproduced these results with 
the N-terminal domain of HypF (HypF-N), a bacterial protein which forms 
inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli. Instead of forming inclusion bodies, 
HypF-N could be expressed as a soluble protein in the presence of sorbitol, 
arginine, and trehalose in the expression medium.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.05259-11
PMCID: PMC3127727
PMID: 21551288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Exp Mol Med. 2003 Aug 31;35(4):310-6. doi: 10.1038/emm.2003.42.

Detection of antibodies against glucose 6-phosphate isomerase in synovial fluid 
of rheumatoid arthritis using surface plasmon resonance (BIAcore).

Kim JY(1), Lee MH, Jung KI, Na HY, Cha HS, Ko EM, Kim TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Samsung Biomedical Research Institute, School of 
Medicine, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 440-746, Korea.

We have used a surface plasmon resonance biosensor (SPR, BIACORE 2000) to detect 
antibodies against glucose 6-phosphate isomerase (GPI) in synovial fluids of 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). Recombinant human GPI 
proteins fused with or without NusA were expressed in E. coli, purified to 
homogeneity and immobilized in flow cells of CM5 sensor chips. The flow cells 
immobilized with NusA protein or bovine serum albumin were used to monitor 
non-specific binding. Synovial fluid samples from RA patients showed a 
significantly higher level of binding to recombinant GPI proteins than samples 
from OA patients. Proteins which bound to the recombinant GPI proteins were 
confirmed to be immunoglobulin through the administration of anti-human 
immunoglobulin. NusA fusion protein was excellent for this assay because of a 
low background binding activity in the SPR analysis and its advantage of 
increased solubility in recombinant protein production. These results suggested 
a useful utilization of recombinant NusA-GPI fusion protein for the detection of 
autoantibodies against GPI in RA patients.

DOI: 10.1038/emm.2003.42
PMID: 14508072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Iran J Pharm Res. 2020 Spring;19(2):175-181. doi: 10.22037/ijpr.2020.1101092.

FTIR Investigation of Secondary Structure of Reteplase Inclusion Bodies Produced 
in Escherichia coli in Terms of Urea Concentration.

Naeimipour S(1), Shojaosadati SA(1), Fazeli A(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Group, Chemical Engineering Department, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

Recent studies suggest that reducing the induction temperature would improve the 
quality of some recombinant inclusion bodies (IB) by providing a native-like 
secondary structure and leading to an improvement in protein recovery. This 
study focused on optimizing the solubilization condition of Reteplase, a 
recombinant protein with 9 disulfide bonds. The influence of lowering induction 
temperature and urea concentration was investigated on the secondary structure 
of the recombinant protein through FTIR analysis. Induction temperature 
reduction decreased the percentage of helixes and loops from 49 to 8. In 
addition, FTIR spectroscopy corroborates the drastic impact of this parameter on 
Reteplase secondary structure. Even though lowering urea concentration tripled 
the solubility of IBs expressed at lower induction temperature, the final yield 
is still quite low to be considered as optimum. On the other hand, the 
percentage of beta strands and turns in secondary structure of dissolved 
proteins were proportional to urea concentration. Therefore, in case of 
Reteplase, protein expression at low temperature (25 °C) was not efficient to 
improve the protein recovery yield. Future studies need to focus on using other 
methods of solubilizing IBs to improve protein recovery.

DOI: 10.22037/ijpr.2020.1101092
PMCID: PMC7667556
PMID: 33224222


771. Virol J. 2019 Aug 9;16(1):100. doi: 10.1186/s12985-019-1212-y.

Generation of recombinant MVA-norovirus: a comparison study of bacterial 
artificial chromosome- and marker-based systems.

Kugler F(1), Drexler I(2), Protzer U(1), Hoffmann D(3), Moeini H(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Technische Universität München, 
Munich, Germany.
(2)Institute for Virology, Universitätklinikum Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine 
Universität, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)Institute of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Technische Universität München, 
Munich, Germany. dieter.hoffmann@tum.de.
(4)Institute of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Technische Universität München, 
Munich, Germany. hassan.moeini@tum.de.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant Modified Vaccinia Virus Ankara has been employed as a 
safe and potent viral vector vaccine against infectious diseases and cancer. We 
generated recMVAs encoding norovirus GII.4 genotype capsid protein by using a 
marker-based approach and a BAC-based system. In the marker-based approach, the 
capsid gene together with a reporter gene was introduced into the MVA genome in 
DF-1 cells. Several rounds of plaque purification were carried out to get rid of 
the WT-MVA. In the BAC-based approach, recMVA-BAC was produced by en passant 
recombineering in E. coli. Subsequently, the recMVAs were rescued in DF-1 cells 
using a helper rabbit fibroma virus. The BAC backbone and the helper virus were 
eliminated by passaging in DF-1 cells. Biochemical characteristics of the 
recMVAs were studied.
RESULTS: We found the purification of the rare spontaneous recombinants 
time-consuming in the marker-based system. In contrast, the BAC-based system 
rapidly inserted the gene of interest in E. coli by en passant recombineering 
before virion production in DF-1 cells. The elimination of the reporter gene was 
found to be faster and more efficient in the BAC-based approach. With Western 
blotting and electron microscopy, we could prove successful capsid protein 
expression and proper virus-assembly, respectively. The MVA-BAC produced higher 
recombinant virus titers and infected DF-1 cells more efficiently.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparing both methods, we conclude that, in contrast to the 
tedious and time-consuming traditional method, the MVA-BAC system allows us to 
quickly generate high titer recMVAs.

DOI: 10.1186/s12985-019-1212-y
PMCID: PMC6688233
PMID: 31399106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


772. Metab Eng. 2020 Sep;61:206-214. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.04.006. Epub 2020 Apr 
24.

Using biopolymer bodies for encapsulation of hydrophobic products in bacterium.

Liu Y(1), Low ZJ(2), Ma X(2), Liang H(1), Sinskey AJ(3), Stephanopoulos G(4), 
Zhou K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore; Disruptive & Sustainable Technologies for Agricultural 
Precision, Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology, Singapore.
(2)Disruptive & Sustainable Technologies for Agricultural Precision, 
Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology, Singapore.
(3)Disruptive & Sustainable Technologies for Agricultural Precision, 
Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology, Singapore; Department of 
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Disruptive & Sustainable Technologies for Agricultural Precision, 
Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology, Singapore; Department of 
Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore; Disruptive & Sustainable Technologies for Agricultural 
Precision, Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology, Singapore. 
Electronic address: kang.zhou@nus.edu.sg.

Producing some small hydrophobic molecules in microbes is challenging. Often 
these molecules cannot cross membranes, and thus their production may be limited 
by lack of storage space in the producing organism. This study reports a new 
technology for in vivo storage of valuable hydrophobic products in/on biopolymer 
bodies in Escherichia coli. A biodegradable and biocompatible polyester - poly 
(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) - was selected as the intracellular storage vessel to 
encapsulate lycopene, which is a chromogenic model compound. The hydrophobic 
interaction between lycopene and PHB was verified by using in vitro binding test 
and sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Further in vivo characterization 
was performed by using Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy (CLSM). The images 
validated the in vivo co-localization between PHB granules and lycopene. The 
images also showed that lycopene aggregated in bacteria that did not produce 
PHB, which may challenge the commonly accepted hypothesis that most lycopene 
molecules are stored in cell membranes of recombinant host. We also confirmed 
that producing PHB did not negatively affect lycopene biosynthesis in the E. 
coli strains and collected data suggesting that PHB titer and lycopene titer 
were positively correlated when the cells were engineered to co-produce them. 
The biopolymers that encapsulated hydrophobic molecules could have many useful 
applications, especially in controlled release because the polymers are 
biodegradable, and the encapsulated products would be released during the 
polymer degradation.

Copyright © 2020 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.04.006
PMID: 32339760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2020 Jun 30;40(6):806-813. doi: 
10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2020.06.06.

[Bacterial expression of 183-227aa region of HER3 extracellular domain I and 
preparation and identification of its polyclonal antibodies].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu L(1)(2)(3)(4), Yuan P(1)(2)(3), Zhao Z(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Wang G(1)(2)(3), 
Yan L(3).

Author information:
(1)Anhui Provincial Engineering Research Center for Polysaccharide Drugs, Wuhu 
241002, China.
(2)Drug Research & Development Center, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 241002, 
China.
(3)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Active Biological Macromolecules, Wuhu 
241002, China.
(4)Research Institute for Pharmaceutical Screening & Evaluation, Wannan Medical 
College, Wuhu 241002, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare the recombinant peptide MVF-HER3 I composed of the 
183-227aa peptide segment of human epidermal growth factor receptor 3 (HER3 I) 
and the measles virus protein 288-302 peptide segment (MVF), and prepare 
polyclonal antibodies (PcAb) against this recombinant peptide.
METHODS: The MVF-HER3 I gene was synthesized chemically and subcloned into 
pET21b or pET32a plasmid containing Thioredoxin (Trx) tag gene. The recombinant 
plasmids were identified by endonuclease digestion. MVF-HER3 I was expressed in 
E.coli BL21(DE3) cells under an optimal bacterial expression condition. The 
fusion protein Trx-MVF-HER3 I was purified using nickel ion affinity 
chromatography, and the purified protein was digested by enterokinase to remove 
Trx tag. The digested mixture underwent further nickel ion affinity 
chromatography to obtain purified MVF-HER3 I. The purified MVF-HER3 I was used 
to immunize SD rats subcutaneously for preparing anti-MVF-HER3 I PcAb. The titer 
of PcAb was determined using ELISA. The bindings of anti-MVF-HER3 I PcAb to 
MVF-HER3 I, native HER3 and MCF7 cells were analyzed using immunoblotting, 
immunoprecipitation and laser confocal microscopy. The growth inhibition effect 
of the antibodies on MCF7 cells cultured in the absence or presence of NRG was 
assessed using sulforhodamine B.
RESULTS: The recombinant peptide gene could not be expressed alone, but could be 
efficiently expressed after fusion with Trx gene under optimized conditions. The 
fusion peptide MVF-HER3 I was successfully prepared from Trx-MVF-HER3 I. The 
anti-MVF-HER3 I PcAb, with a titer reaching 1: 512 000, specifically bound to 
MVF-HER3 I, recognized native HER3 and bound to the membrane of MCF7 cells. The 
obtained PcAb could dose-dependently inhibit the growth of MCF7 cells 
irrespective of the presence or absence of NRG.
CONCLUSIONS: We successfully obtained the recombinant peptide MVF-HER3 I and 
prepared its PcAb, which can facilitate further functional analysis of HER3 
signaling pathway.

目的: 
原核表达、纯化由人表皮生长因子受体3（HER3）183-227aa肽段（HER3Ⅰ）和麻疹病毒蛋白288-302aa肽段（MVF）融合构建的重组肽（MVF-HER3Ⅰ），并制备其多克隆抗体。
方法: 
将MVF与HER3Ⅰ融合构建重组肽MVF-HER3Ⅰ，用化学合成法合成重组肽基因，并将其与pET21b质粒和含有硫氧还蛋白（Trx）基因的pET32a质粒连接构建重组肽表达质粒，重组质粒用双酶切法鉴定。将重组质粒导入到大肠杆菌BL21（DE3）并进行表达参数优化及诱导表达。融合蛋白依次经镍离子亲和层析、肠激酶酶切和再次镍离子亲和层析制备重组肽。表达和纯化过程中的样品纯度和相对分子质量用SDS-PAGE分析。以纯化的重组肽为抗原免疫大鼠制备多克隆抗体。用ELISA法测定抗重组肽多克隆抗体效价，免疫印迹和免疫沉淀法分析抗重组肽多克隆抗体对重组肽和非变性状态HER3的识别，激光共聚焦法分析抗重组肽多克隆抗体与MCF7细胞的结合，磺酰罗丹明B染色法测定在有无神经调节素刺激下抗重组肽多克隆抗体对高表达HER3的MCF7细胞的增殖抑制作用。
结果: 成功构建了重组肽的两种表达质粒，重组肽基因不能单独表达，但和Trx融合后可在37 ℃、0.2 mmol/L 
IPTG条件下呈可溶高表达。融合蛋白经亲和层析、酶切和再次亲和层析后得到重组肽。重组肽可刺激大鼠产生效价达1:512 
000的抗重组肽多克隆抗体。该抗体不仅可特异性识别重组肽, 
还可特异性沉淀非变性HER3和结合于MCF7细胞的细胞膜。不管有无神经调节素刺激，该抗体均呈浓度依赖性地抑制HER3高表达的MCF7细胞的增殖（P < 
0.01）。
结论: 
成功进行了重组肽MVF-HER3Ⅰ的原核表达和纯化，制备并鉴定了抗MVF-HER3Ⅰ多克隆抗体，为在体内外深入研究该抗体对HER3信号通路的影响打下基础。

DOI: 10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2020.06.06
PMCID: PMC7321272
PMID: 32895213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Front Microbiol. 2021 Aug 10;12:714335. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2021.714335. 
eCollection 2021.

Construction of an Artificial Biosynthetic Pathway for the Styrylpyrone Compound 
11-Methoxy-Bisnoryangonin Produced in Engineered Escherichia coli.

Heo KT(1)(2), Lee B(1), Jang JH(1)(2), Ahn JO(2)(3), Hong YS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Anticancer Agent Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology, Cheongju-si, South Korea.
(2)Department of Bio-Molecular Science, KRIBB School of Bioscience, University 
of Science and Technology (UST), Daejeon, South Korea.
(3)Biotechnology Process Engineering Center, KRIBB, Cheongju-si, South Korea.

A cDNA clone (named pnpks), which shows high homology to the known chalcone 
synthase (CHS)-like type III PKS, was obtained from the leaves of Piper nigrum. 
The PnPKS protein with ferulic acid catalyzed lactonization instead of chalcone 
or stilbene formation. The new product was characterized as a styrylpyrone, 
11-methoxy-bisnoryangonin, which is the lactonization compound of a linear 
triketide formed as the reaction product of PnPKS protein with ferulic acid. 
These results show that pnpks encodes a styrylpyrone synthase (SPS)-like PKS 
that catalyzes two-chain elongation with feruloyl CoA-linked starter substrates. 
Although these styrylpyrone compounds are promising for use in human healthcare, 
they are mainly obtained by extraction from raw plant or mushroom sources. For 
de novo synthesis of 11-methoxy-bisnoryangonin in the heterologous host 
Escherichia coli from a simple sugar as a starter, the artificial biosynthetic 
pathway contained five genes: optal, sam5, com, and 4cl2nt, along with the pnpks 
gene. The engineered L-tyrosine overproducing E. coli ∆COS1 strain, in which 
five biosynthetic genes were cloned into two vectors, pET-opT5M and pET22-4P, 
was cultured for 24 h in a minimal glucose medium containing ampicillin and 
kanamycin. As a result, 11-methoxy-bisnoryangonin production of up to 52.8 mg/L 
was achieved, which is approximately 8.5-fold higher than that in the parental 
E. coli strain harboring a plasmid for 11-methoxy-bisnoryangonin biosynthesis. 
As a potential styrylpyrone compound, 11-methoxy-bisnoryangonin, was 
successfully produced in E. coli from a simple glucose medium, and its 
production titer was also increased using engineered strains. This study 
provides a useful reference for establishing the biological manufacture of 
styrylpyrone compounds.

Copyright © 2021 Heo, Lee, Jang, Ahn and Hong.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2021.714335
PMCID: PMC8388576
PMID: 34456894

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


775. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Mar;24(3):253-5.

[Prokaryotic expression, purification, and polyclonal antibody generation of 
beta subunit of human F1F0-ATP synthase].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu LL(1), Zhang YJ, Zhang X, Wang YB, Lin JB, Ni J, Peng Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 200240, China. 
nanshi_yulili@sina.com

AIM: To express and purify the beta subunit of human F1F0-ATP synthase (hATP5B) 
in prokaryotic system, and generate its polyclonal antibody in rabbits.
METHODS: The coding sequence of hATP5B mature peptide was amplified by RT-PCR 
from human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and then cloned into 
prokaryotic expression vector pET28a(+). The plasmid was transformed into E.coli 
BL21(DE3) to express hATP5B in reponse to IPTG induction. Expressed protein was 
purified by Ni(2+) metal-chelating chromatograph, and refolded by dialysis. The 
products were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot. Refolded protein was 
injected into rabbits to generate polyclonal antibody. The titer of the 
polyclonal antibody was determined by indirect ELISA. The specificity and the 
binding ability were detected by Western blot and cell immunofluorescence 
analysis.
RESULTS: DNA sequencing confirmed that the coding sequence of hATP5B mature 
peptide was completely concordant with the original sequence (NM_001686, 
hATP5B's GenBank accession number). SDS-PAGE showed that the relative molecular 
masses (M(r)) of the expressed, purified, and refolded products were about 
relative molecular masses M(r) 55,000, which was in accordance with the 
predicted. Grayscale scanning showed that the expressed recombinant hATP5B 
(rhATP5B) accounted for 36.8% of the total bacteria protein, and the purity of 
purified product was 98.3%, of refolded 99.1%. The result of Western blot is 
positive. The titer of the polyclonal antibody was 1:640,000, and it 
specifically recognized the native antigen in HUVEC.
CONCLUSION: hATP5B expressed in prokaryotic system has strong immunogenicity, 
and the polyclonal antibody with high titer and specificity was obtained from 
immunization of rabbits. The high level prokaryotic expression of hATP5B and the 
preparation of its antibody lay the foundation for further function research of 
hATP5B.

PMID: 18328186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Dec;100(23):9979-9994. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-016-7683-5. Epub 2016 Jun 25.

A combinatorial approach of N-terminus blocking and codon optimization 
strategies to enhance the soluble expression of recombinant hIL-7 in E. coli 
fed-batch culture.

Devi N(1), Adivitiya(1), Khasa YP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Delhi South Campus, New Delhi, 
110021, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Delhi South Campus, New Delhi, 
110021, India. yogi110@gmail.com.

Human interleukin-7 (hIL-7) is a therapeutically important cytokine involved in 
lymphocyte development and survival. In previous reports, a uniformly poor 
expression of hIL-7 has been shown in Escherichia coli host with the problem of 
inclusion body formation. In this study, the role of codon optimization and 
N-terminus blocking using various solubility enhancer fusion tags was explored 
to improve its soluble expression. The use of codon optimization strategy 
improved its expression to 80 ± 5 mg/L at shake flask level. The utilization of 
pelB leader sequence resulted in an unprocessed protein in the form of 
cytoplasmic inclusion bodies with lower expression yields. The N-terminus fusion 
of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO), thioredoxin (Trx), and NusA tags 
increased the expression in the range of 90-140 mg/L, where >90 % of the fusion 
protein was obtained in soluble form. The fed-batch fermentation of SUMO-tagged 
hIL-7 protein was optimized at bioreactor level, where a high volumetric product 
concentration of 2.65 g/L was achieved by controlling the plasmid segregation 
instability using high antibiotic concentration. The specific product yield 
(YP/X) and volumetric product concentration were 1.38 and 2.55-fold higher 
compared to batch results, respectively. A preparative scale affinity 
chromatography resulted in a high recovery yield of 50.6 mg/L with ∼90 % purity. 
The conformational property of purified recombinant hIL-7 from CD spectroscopy 
showed a typical helical structure with 31.5 % α-helix and 26.43 % β-sheet. The 
biological activity of purified protein was tested using IL-7-dependent murine 
immature B lymphocyte (2E8) cell line by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 
5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide salt (MTT) assay, where it showed a similar 
biological activity as standard control.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-016-7683-5
PMID: 27342246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Microb Pathog. 2001 Jul;31(1):9-19. doi: 10.1006/mpat.2001.0442.

Fragment of Japanese encephalitis virus envelope protein produced in Escherichia 
coli protects mice from virus challenge.

Chia SC(1), Leung PS, Liao CP, Huang JH, Lee ST.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan 11529, 
Republic of China.

A fragment from the N-terminal part (E(A)) and a fragment from the C-terminal 
part (E(B)) of the envelope (E) protein of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) was 
synthesized in Escherichia coli. These two fragments were overlapping with each 
other by nine amino acids, however, they were not cross-reacting with each other 
at the antisera level. Both E(A)and E(B)are antigenic by themselves when 
injected into mice, but when tested against sera from mice, rabbit, swine and 
human that had been immunized or naturally infected with JEV, E(B)acted as a 
better antigen than E(A)by ELISA assays. E(B)also proved to be a better 
immunogen in protection against lethal JEV infection than E(A). The protection 
appears to be correlated with the neutralizing titres of the anti-JEV sera. The 
response elicited by E(B)is a Th1 response and the antibody produced contained 
higher neutralizing titre than E(A)fragment. The major difference between 
E(A)and E(B)fragments is the solubility during expression in E. coli, while 
E(B)fragment is soluble, E(A)was isolated from the insoluble inclusion bodies. 
Therefore the antigenicity and immunogenicity expressed by the E(B)fragment may 
probably be due to its proper folding to assume a correctly assembled form 
during expression in E. coli, a quality that is important for a protein to 
qualify as a good vaccine candidate.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpat.2001.0442
PMID: 11427032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2014 Jan 15;157(1-2):97-104. doi: 
10.1016/j.vetimm.2013.10.002. Epub 2013 Oct 30.

Egg yolk IgY against RHDV capsid protein VP60 promotes rabbit defense against 
RHDV infection.

Li ZX(1), Hu WD(1), Li BC(1), Li TY(1), Zhou XY(1), Zhang Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Engineering Technology and Application, 
School of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Sichuan University of Science 
and Engineering, Zigong 643000, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Engineering Technology and Application, 
School of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Sichuan University of Science 
and Engineering, Zigong 643000, China. Electronic address: zhangzhi02@gmail.com.

VP60 capsid protein is the major structural and immunogenicity protein of RHDV 
(Rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus, RHDV), and has been implicated as a main 
protein antigen in RHDV diagnosis and vaccine design. In this report, egg yolk 
antibody (IgY) against N-terminal of VP60 was evaluated and developed as a new 
strategy for RHDV therapy. Briefly, N-terminal of VP60 (∼250aa) fragment was 
cloned and inserted into pET28a expression vector, and then the resultant 
plasmid, pET28a/VP60-N, was transformed into E. coli BL21(DE3) for recombinant 
VP60-N protein (rVP60-N) expression. Next, the rVP60-N was purified by 
Ni(+)-affinity purification chromatography and identified by Western blotting 
with RHDV antiserum. After immunizing the chickens with rVP60-N, the 
anti-rVP60-N IgY was isolated, and the activity and specificity of the IgY 
antibody were analyzed by ELISA and Western blotting. In our results, the 
rVP60-N could be expressed in E. coli as soluble fraction, and the isolated 
anti-rVP60-N IgY demonstrated a high specificity and titer (1:22,000) against 
rVP60-N antigen. For further evaluation of the IgY efficacy in vivo, rabbits 
were grouped randomly and challenged with RHDV, and the results showed that 
anti-rVP60-N IgY could significantly protect rabbits from virus infection and 
promote the host survival after a sustained treatment with anti-rVP60-N IgY for 
5 days. Taken together, our study demonstrates evidence that production of IgY 
against VP60 could be as a novel strategy for the RHDV therapy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2013.10.002
PMID: 24252247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Feb;34(2):169-174.

[Preparation, characterization and application of monoclonal antibody against 
RecQ helicase].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang R(1), Jia T(1), Lian F(1), Liu J(2), Zhou M(3).

Author information:
(1)Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research Center, Department of Immunology, 
Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China.
(2)Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research Center, Department of Immunology, 
Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China. *Corresponding authors, 
E-mail: liujlin63@yahoo.com.
(3)Engineering Research Center for the Development and Application of Ethnic 
Medicine and TCM, Ministry of Education & State Key Laboratory of Functions and 
Applications of Medicinal Plants, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, 
China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: gmuzhoumeng@163.com.

Objective To prepare monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against RecQ helicase, 
characterize their biological properties, and then investigate their activity 
against RecQ helicase in tumor cells. Methods BALB/c mice were immunized with 
purified recombinant RecQ helicase from E.coli. Hybridoma technique was used to 
generate the mAb against RecQ helicase. The chromosome karyotype analysis of the 
hybridoma cells was performed by colchicine blocking. The Ig subtype and titer 
of mAb in ascitic fluid were determined by ELISA. The biological properties of 
mAb were detected via Western blotting and fluorescence polarization. 
Immunofluorescence was used to detect the interactions of mAb with BLM, RecQ4 
and RecQ5 helicases in human breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells. 
Immunohistochemistry was applied to detect the binding of mAb and RecQ helicase 
in K562 tumor cells and the corresponding stem cells. Results One stable 
hybridoma cell line expressing anti-RecQ mAb was obtained and named 6H5. The 
number of chromosomes was from 94 to 104, and Ig subtype was IgG1. The titer of 
6H5 in ascitic fluid was 1×10-7. The mAb could specifically recognize E. coli 
RecQ helicase and thus inhibit its DNA binding activity. Besides, the mAb could 
also recognize BLM, RecQ4 and RecQ5 in MDA-MB-231 cells, and sensitively detect 
the expression of the RecQ helicase in K562 tumor cells and the corresponding 
stem cells. Conclusion The mAb against RecQ helicase was successfully prepared 
with a high titer and specificity.

PMID: 29673459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Microb Cell Fact. 2011 Jun 29;10:51. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-51.

Overexpression and purification of U24 from human herpesvirus type-6 in E. coli: 
unconventional use of oxidizing environments with a maltose binding 
protein-hexahistine dual tag to enhance membrane protein yield.

Tait AR(1), Straus SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of British Columbia, 2036 Main Mall, 
Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z1, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Obtaining membrane proteins in sufficient quantity for biophysical 
study and biotechnological applications has been a difficult task. Use of the 
maltose binding protein/hexahistidine dual tag system with E.coli as an 
expression host is emerging as a high throughput method to enhance membrane 
protein yield, solubility, and purity, but fails to be effective for certain 
proteins. Optimizing the variables in this system to fine-tune for efficiency 
can ultimately be a daunting task. To identify factors critical to success in 
this expression system, we have selected to study U24, a novel membrane protein 
from Human Herpesvirus type-6 with potent immunosuppressive ability and a 
possible role in the pathogenesis of the disease multiple sclerosis.
RESULTS: We expressed full-length U24 as a C-terminal fusion to a maltose 
binding protein/hexahistidine tag and examined the effects of temperature, 
growth medium type, cell strain type, oxidizing vs. reducing conditions and 
periplasmic vs. cytoplasmic expression location. Temperature appeared to have 
the greatest effect on yield; at 37°C full-length protein was either poorly 
expressed (periplasm) or degraded (cytoplasm) whereas at 18°C, expression was 
improved especially in the periplasm of C41(DE3) cells and in the cytoplasm of 
oxidizing Δtrx/Δgor mutant strains, Origami 2 and SHuffle. Expression of the 
fusion protein in these strains were estimated to be 3.2, 5.3 and 4.3 times 
greater, respectively, compared to commonly-used BL21(DE3) cells. We found that 
U24 is isolated with an intramolecular disulfide bond under these conditions, 
and we probed whether this disulfide bond was critical to high yield expression 
of full-length protein. Expression analysis of a C21SC37S cysteine-free mutant 
U24 demonstrated that this disulfide was not critical for full-length protein 
expression, but it is more likely that strained metabolic conditions favour 
factors which promote protein expression. This hypothesis is supported by the 
fact that use of minimal media could enhance protein production compared to 
nutrient-rich LB media.
CONCLUSIONS: We have found optimal conditions for heterologous expression of U24 
from Human Herpesvirus type-6 in E.coli and have demonstrated that milligram 
quantities of pure protein can be obtained. Strained metabolic conditions such 
as low temperature, minimal media and an oxidizing environment appeared 
essential for high-level, full-length protein production and this information 
may be useful for expressing other membrane proteins of interest.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-51
PMCID: PMC3155487
PMID: 21714924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. J Biosci Bioeng. 2018 Dec;126(6):705-709. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.06.009. 
Epub 2018 Jul 25.

SKIK-zipbody-alkaline phosphatase, a novel antibody fusion protein expressed 
in Escherichia coli cytoplasm.

Ritthisan P(1), Ojima-Kato T(2), Damnjanović J(1), Kojima T(1), Nakano H(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, Graduate School of Bioagricultural 
Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, Graduate School of Bioagricultural 
Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan; 
School of Agriculture, Meijo University, Shiogamaguchi, Tenpaku-ku, Nagoya 
468-8502, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, Graduate School of Bioagricultural 
Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan. 
Electronic address: hnakano@agr.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Antibody-enzyme fusion proteins have been used for various immunological 
detection techniques, such as ELISA, Western blotting and so on. The use of 
genetically-fused antibody-enzyme complexes has advantages over conventional 
chemical conjugation methods, as they require no complex chemical reactions and 
allow for the strict control of the number of enzymes fused with antibodies, 
resulting in a more stable performance of the bifunctional protein. Here, we 
describe efficient cytoplasmic soluble expression of an antigen-binding fragment 
(Fab) fused with Escherichia coli alkaline phosphatase (AP), N-terminal 
Ser-Lys-Ile-Lys (SKIK) tag that can improve the synthesis of the tagged protein, 
as well as leucine zipper (LZ) to enhance the association of the light chain and 
the heavy chain of Fab. Our results demonstrated that the SKIK-Fab-LZ-AP fusion 
was well expressed in E. coli oxidative cytoplasm in soluble form having both 
antigen-binding and AP activity, and was purified to homogeneity by two step 
column chromatography, suggesting that the combination of the SKIK tag and AP 
fusion can greatly increase the productivity and solubility of the Fab-enzyme 
fusion in an E. coli cytoplasmic expression system.

Copyright © 2018 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.06.009
PMID: 30056072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2018 Mar;83(3):259-269. doi: 10.1134/S0006297918030069.

Expression of Soluble Active Interferon αA in Escherichia coli Periplasm by 
Fusion with Thermostable Lichenase Using the Domain Insertion Approach.

Tyurin AA(1), Kabardaeva KV, Mustafaev ON, Pavlenko OS, Sadovskaya NS, Fadeev 
VS, Zvonova EA, Goldenkova-Pavlova IV.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Physiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 127276, 
Russia. irengold58@gmail.com.

A recombinant DNA in which the interferon αA (IFN-αA) gene sequence is 
integrated into a loop region of the gene coding thermostable lichenase was 
constructed. This approach of insertion fusion with thermostable lichenase is 
advantageous in terms of increasing the solubility, stability, and production of 
the fusion partner in soluble form in general and in the periplasm of bacterial 
cells in particular. Thus, the insertion of IFN-αA into the loop (53 a.a.) of 
thermostable lichenase from Clostridium thermocellum resulted in effective 
expression of the soluble form of the recombinant protein in the periplasm of 
Escherichia coli without any compromise in biological activity of IFN-αA, while 
the thermostable lichenase retained its ability for functional folding without 
dramatic loss of its basic activity and thermostability.

DOI: 10.1134/S0006297918030069
PMID: 29625545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Biotechnol Lett. 2016 Jun;38(6):901-8. doi: 10.1007/s10529-016-2073-8. Epub 2016 
Mar 22.

High level soluble expression and one-step purification of IBDV VP2 protein in 
Escherichia coli.

Jiang D(1)(2), Liu Y(2), Wang A(3), Zhang G(4)(5), Yang G(1), Chen Y(2)(3), Ji 
P(2), Liu C(2), Song Y(1)(2), Su Y(2), Wang G(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Zhao B(1)(2), 
Deng R(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, People's Republic of China.
(2)Henan Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Zhengzhou, 450002, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 450001, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, People's Republic of China. 
zhanggaiping2003@163.com.
(5)Henan Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Zhengzhou, 450002, People's Republic of China. 
zhanggaiping2003@163.com.

OBJECTIVES: To improve the expression of soluble IBDV VP2 protein by using 
different tagged vectors in Escherichia coli.
RESULTS: Fusion tags, Grifin, MBP, SUMO, thioredoxin, γ-crystallin, ArsC and 
PpiB, enhanced the expression and solubility of VP2 protein. The fusion proteins 
were purified by Ni-NTA chromatography, MBP-VP2 showed the highest purity about 
90 %. After removing the MBP tag, VP2 self-assembled into virus-like 
particles, ~25 nm diam. Results from AGP suggested the recombinant IBDV VP2 
protein identified by reference serum like IBDV.
CONCLUSION: All the seven tags enhanced the expression and solubility of IBDV 
VP2 protein. The recombinant protein self-assembly into virus like particles and 
possess antigenicity as reference IBDV.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-016-2073-8
PMID: 27003577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Microbiol Immunol. 2012 Jul;56(7):423-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2012.00458.x.

Prokaryotic expression and immunogenicity of 56-kDa protein of Orientia 
tsutsugamushi strain Karp.

Wang YY(1), Chen Q, Yu Q, Zhang LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rickettsiology, National Institute for Communicable Disease 
Control and Prevention, China CDC, Beijing, China.

To express the 56-kDa protein of O. tsutsugamushi strain Karp, this protein gene 
was cloned into pET30a(+) before transforming into host bacteria, E. coli 
Rossetta. Specificity of the recombinant protein was assessed by ELISA using 
rabbit sera against common members of the order Rickettsiae and 10 other 
pathogenic bacteria. After IPTG induction, SDS-PAGE analysis of isolated protein 
demonstrated a band at approximately 46-kDa. Western blot and mass spectrometry 
analysis proved that the recombinant protein was expressed successfully. 
Specificity analysis demonstrated that all sera were negative, except sera 
against O. tsutsugamushi strains TA763, TH1817 and Kato, B. quintana, A. 
phagocytophilum, E. chaffeensis and B. bacilliformis. The purified protein was 
used to immunize BALB/c mice and polyclonal antisera were harvested. By 
examination of IFA and ELISA, the highest titer of the polyclonal antibodies 
reaches 1:1600. The recombinant 56-kDa protein in the study is valuable for 
developing a simple and rapid diagnostic test and vaccine for O. tsutsugamushi.

© 2012 The Societies and Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2012.00458.x
PMID: 22462646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2009 Feb 
28;27(1):6-10.

[Construction of cDNA expression library of unfed female Haemaphysalis 
longicornis and immuno-screening].

[Article in Chinese]

Chai HP(1), Liu GY, Zhang L, Gong ZL, Xie JR, Tian ZC, Wang L, Jia N.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Veterinary Parasitology of Gansu Province, State Key 
Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, Lanzhou Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou 730046, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a cDNA expression library from unfed female tick 
Haemaphysalis longicornis for screening and cloning potential antigenic genes.
METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from unfed female ticks, mRNA was purified and a 
library of oligo (dT) -primed cDNA with added directional EcoR I /Hind III 
linkers was constructed from the purified mRNA. The constructed cDNA was ligated 
to the EcoR I /Hind III arms of the lambda SCREEN vector. Pure phage stocks were 
harvested by plaque purification and converted to plasmid subclones by plating 
phage on host strain BM25.8. Recombinant plasmids that were subcloned to E. coli 
BM25.8 were isolated and transformed into E. coli JM109. Recombinant plasmids 
abstracted from JM109 were identified by PCR and sequencing.
RESULTS: The recombinant phage DNA was packaged by using phage-marker packaging 
extracts, resulting in a primary cDNA library with a size of 1.8 x 10(6) pfu. 
Data showed 100% of the library were recombinant and the titer of the amplified 
library was 2.4 x 10(9) pfu/ml. Forty-two clones of encoding immunodominant 
antigens were obtained from the cDNA library. Sequence analysis revealed 12 
unique cDNA sequences and the encoded putative proteins showed similarities to 
H. longicornis tropomyosin mRNA, Rhipicephalus annulatus unknown larval protein 
mRNA, chromosome 2R of Drosophila melanogaster, mitochondrial DNA of H. flava, 
clones HqL09 unkown mRNA and Hq05 mRNA of H. qinghaiensis, and myosin alkali 
light chain protein mRNA.
CONCLUSION: The cDNA expression library from unfed female H. longicornis was 
successfully constructed and screening of protective genes may provide candidate 
antigens of the tick.

PMID: 19459491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Agric Food Chem. 2021 May 26;69(20):5663-5670. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c01101. 
Epub 2021 May 13.

Synthetic Protein Scaffolds for Improving R-(-)-Linalool Production in 
Escherichia coli.

Wu J(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang X(1)(2)(3)(4), Xiao L(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang F(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Zhang Y(1)(2)(3)(4), Li X(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Provincial Key Laboratory for the Chemistry and Utilization of 
Agro-Forest Biomass, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing 210037, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biomass-Based Green Fuels and Chemicals, Nanjing 
Forestry University, Nanjing 210037, China.
(3)Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center for Efficient Processing and Utilization of 
Forest Resources, College of Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Forestry University, 
Nanjing 210037, China.
(4)International Innovation Center for Forest Chemicals and Materials, Nanjing 
Forestry University, Nanjing 210037, China.

R-(-)-Linalool is widely used in the pharmaceutical, agrochemical, and fragrance 
industries; however, its applications are limited owing to low yield and high 
cost of production. To improve the production efficiency of R-(-)-linalool in 
Escherichia coli, three enzymes [E. coli-derived isopentenyl diphosphate 
isomerase, Abies grandis-derived geranyl diphosphate synthase, and Streptomyces 
clavuligerus-derived (3R)-linalool synthases] were physically colocalized to 
synthetic complexes using synthetic protein scaffolds of GTPase-binding domain, 
Src homology 3, and PSD95/DlgA/Zo-1. R-(-)-Linalool was produced at the highest 
concentration in the strain IGL114 containing a scaffold ratio of 1:1:4. By 
further optimizing the inducer, temperature, and glycerol concentration, the 
production titer of R-(-)-linalool in the shake flask was increased by 
approximately 10 times compared with that of the scaffold-free control and was 
2.78 times the previously reported yield. The production in the fermenter was 
about 1.5 times the previous highest production. In general, the final strain 
accumulated 277.8 and 1523.2 mg/L R-(-)-linalool under the conditions of 
shake-flask and fed-batch fermentation, respectively. This study provides a 
foundation for the assembly of bacterial intracellular protein scaffolds.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c01101
PMID: 33983023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2000 Apr;40(2):155-60.

[Construction of a novel Bm NPV Bac to Bac system].

[Article in Chinese]

Deng X(1), Zhu Y, Diao Z, Qi Y, Zhou Z.

Author information:
(1)Nanjing Command Military Medical Institute, Nanjing 210002.

A Bi-Shuttle vector Bm-Bacmid was constructed by co-infecting Bm N cells with 
wild type genomic DNA from BmNPV and Ac-Bacmid DNA. It could not only replicate 
in E. coli cells as a large plasmid and but also remain infectious when induced 
into Bm N or Sf9 cells. Recombinant virus rBmHBe was obtained after 
transposition of a donor plasmid carrying Hepatitis Be antigen gene (HBeAg) into 
att Tn7, and was demonstrated by Southern blotting. SDS-PAGE analysis showed 
that HBeAg gene were highly expressed in Bm N cells. By ELISA testing, the 
highest antigenecity titer of HBeAg protein in cell cultural medium was up to a 
dilution of 1:32,000. Although HBeAg protein also presented in the Bm N cells 
the titer was only 1:2000. The HBcAg protein was much fewer than HBeAg (< 1:160) 
whatever in culture medium and in cells. The results showed that Bm N cells was 
able to recognize the signal peptide sequence and cut it correctly for HBeAg 
protein's excreting production.

PMID: 12548938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Zhongguo Xue Xi Chong Bing Fang Zhi Za Zhi. 2011 Apr;23(2):168-72.

[Preparation and characteristics of Schistosoma japonicum signaling protein 
14-3-3].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin XR(1), Yu CX, Xie SY, Qian CY, Song LJ, Wang J, Zhang W, Xu YL.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Key Laboratory on Technology for 
Parasitic Disease Prevention and Control, Ministry of Health, Wuxi 214064, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare soluble recombinant signal transduction protein 14-3-3 of 
Schistosoma japonicum (rSj14-3-3) and investigate its immunologic features.
METHODS: The cDNA fragment of signal transduction protein 14-3-3 gene was 
prepared from Schistosoma japonicum adult worm mRNA, and was subcloned to the 
downstream of glutathione S transferase gene of expression vector pGEX-4T-3 to 
construct a recombinant expression plasmid 14-3-3/pGEX-4T-3. The recombinant 
plasmids were transferred into E. coli BL21, the transforments containing 
recombinant plasmid were induced by IPTG, and the expression situation of fusion 
protein GST-14-3-3 was observed by SDS-PAGE. The pure recombinant 14-3-3 protein 
was prepared by digesting the fusion protein GST-rSj14-3-3 with thrombin and 
affinity chromatography. The specific antibody against rSj14-3-3 protein was 
prepared by an immunized rabbit with rSj14-3-3 protein. The immunogenicity and 
immune reactivity of rSj14-3-3 protein were analyzed by Western blotting.
RESULTS: The gene encoding signal transduction protein 14-3-3 of Schistosoma 
japonicum Jiangsu strain was cloned successfully, the homology of open read 
frame sequence to the registrated sequence of Sj14-3-3 protein in genbank was 
99.08%. A 55 kilo Dalton fusion protein GST-rSj14-3-3 was expressed by 
transferring the recombinant plasmid 14-3-3/pGEX-4T-3 into E. coli BL21 and 
induced with IPTG. The high titer antibody against rSj14-3-3 was produced by the 
immunized rabbit with rSj14-3-3 ,and could recognize the nature and recombinant 
rSj14-3-3 proteins.
CONCLUSIONS: The soluble rSj14-3-3 protein has been prepared successfully in 
this study, and it has good immunogenicity and reactivity.

PMID: 22164619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Microb Cell Fact. 2012 Apr 4;11:42. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-11-42.

Biosynthesis of caffeic acid in Escherichia coli using its endogenous 
hydroxylase complex.

Lin Y(1), Yan Y.

Author information:
(1)Biochemical Engineering Program, Faculty of Engineering, the University of 
Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.

Erratum in
    Microb Cell Fact. 2015;14:110.

BACKGROUND: Caffeic acid (3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid) is a natural phenolic 
compound derived from the plant phenylpropanoid pathway. Caffeic acid and its 
phenethyl ester (CAPE) have attracted increasing attention for their various 
pharmaceutical properties and health-promoting effects. Nowadays, large-scale 
production of drugs or drug precursors via microbial approaches provides a 
promising alternative to chemical synthesis and extraction from plant sources.
RESULTS: We first identified that an Escherichia coli native hydroxylase complex 
previously characterized as the 4-hydroxyphenylacetate 3-hydroxylase (4HPA3H) 
was able to convert p-coumaric acid to caffeic acid efficiently. This critical 
enzymatic step catalyzed in plants by a membrane-associated cytochrome P450 
enzyme, p-coumarate 3-hydroxylase (C3H), is difficult to be functionally 
expressed in prokaryotic systems. Moreover, the performances of two tyrosine 
ammonia lyases (TALs) from Rhodobacter species were compared after 
overexpression in E. coli. The results indicated that the TAL from R. capsulatus 
(Rc) possesses higher activity towards both tyrosine and L-dopa. Based on these 
findings, we further designed a dual pathway leading from tyrosine to caffeic 
acid consisting of the enzymes 4HPA3H and RcTAL. This heterologous pathway 
extended E. coli native tyrosine biosynthesis machinery and was able to produce 
caffeic acid (12.1 mg/L) in minimal salt medium. Further improvement in 
production was accomplished by boosting tyrosine biosynthesis in E. coli, which 
involved the alleviation of tyrosine-induced feedback inhibition and carbon flux 
redirection. Finally, the titer of caffeic acid reached 50.2 mg/L in shake 
flasks after 48-hour cultivation.
CONCLUSION: We have successfully established a novel pathway and constructed an 
E. coli strain for the production of caffeic acid. This work forms a basis for 
further improvement in production, as well as opens the possibility of microbial 
synthesis of more complex plant secondary metabolites derived from caffeic acid. 
In addition, we have identified that TAL is the rate-limiting enzyme in this 
pathway. Thus, exploration for more active TALs via bio-prospecting and protein 
engineering approaches is necessary for further improvement of caffeic acid 
production.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-11-42
PMCID: PMC3379962
PMID: 22475509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Mar;95(100):96-103. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.11.015. 
Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Bacterial expression of human kynurenine 3-monooxygenase: solubility, activity, 
purification.

Wilson K(1), Mole DJ(2), Binnie M(3), Homer NZ(4), Zheng X(5), Yard BA(6), 
Iredale JP(7), Auer M(8), Webster SP(9).

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery Core, University/BHF Centre for Cardiovascular Science, 
Queen's Medical Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, 47 Little 
France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
Kris.Wilson@ed.ac.uk.
(2)MRC Centre for Inflammation Research, Queen's Medical Research Institute, The 
University of Edinburgh, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: Damian.Mole@ed.ac.uk.
(3)Drug Discovery Core, University/BHF Centre for Cardiovascular Science, 
Queen's Medical Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, 47 Little 
France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
m.binnie@ed.ac.uk.
(4)Mass Spectrometry Core, University/BHF Centre for Cardiovascular Science, 
Queen's Medical Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, 47 Little 
France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
nhomer@staffmail.ed.ac.uk.
(5)MRC Centre for Inflammation Research, Queen's Medical Research Institute, The 
University of Edinburgh, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: xzheng@staffmail.ed.ac.uk.
(6)Drug Discovery Core, University/BHF Centre for Cardiovascular Science, 
Queen's Medical Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, 47 Little 
France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
byard1@staffmail.ed.ac.uk.
(7)MRC Centre for Inflammation Research, Queen's Medical Research Institute, The 
University of Edinburgh, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: John.Iredale@ed.ac.uk.
(8)School of Biological Sciences and School of Biomedical Sciences, University 
of Edinburgh, CH Waddington Building, The University of Edinburgh Kings 
Buildings, Mayfield Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JD, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
Manfred.Auer@ed.ac.uk.
(9)Drug Discovery Core, University/BHF Centre for Cardiovascular Science, 
Queen's Medical Research Institute, The University of Edinburgh, 47 Little 
France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
scott.webster@ed.ac.uk.

Kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO) is an enzyme central to the kynurenine pathway 
of tryptophan metabolism. KMO has been implicated as a therapeutic target in 
several disease states, including Huntington's disease. Recombinant human KMO 
protein production is challenging due to the presence of transmembrane domains, 
which localise KMO to the outer mitochondrial membrane and render KMO insoluble 
in many in vitro expression systems. Efficient bacterial expression of human KMO 
would accelerate drug development of KMO inhibitors but until now this has not 
been achieved. Here we report the first successful bacterial (Escherichia coli) 
expression of active FLAG™-tagged human KMO enzyme expressed in the soluble 
fraction and progress towards its purification.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.11.015
PMCID: PMC3969302
PMID: 24316190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Sci Rep. 2019 Sep 23;9(1):13706. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-50110-6.

Prokaryotic soluble overexpression and purification of oncostatin M using a 
fusion approach and genetically engineered E. coli strains.

Nguyen MT(1)(2), Prima MJ(1), Song JA(1), Kim J(1), Do BH(1)(3), Yoo J(1), Park 
S(1), Jang J(1), Lee S(1), Lee E(1), Novais MP(1), Seo HB(4), Lee SY(4), Cho 
ML(4), Kim CJ(5), Jang YJ(1), Choe H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, 05505, Korea.
(2)NTT Hi-Tech Institute, Nguyen Tat Thanh University, Ho Chi Minh city, 
Vietnam.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy, Ton Duc Thang University, Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam.
(4)The Rheumatism Research Center, The Laboratory of Immune Network, CRCID, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, 06591, Korea.
(5)Department of Pathology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, 05505, Korea.
(6)Department of Physiology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, 05505, Korea. 
hchoe@ulsan.ac.kr.

Human Oncostatin M (OSM), initially discovered as a tumour inhibitory factor 
secreted from U-937 cells, is a gp130 (IL-6/LIF) cytokine family member that 
exhibits pleiotropic effects in inflammation, haematopoiesis, skeletal tissue 
alteration, liver regeneration, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. 
Cytoplasmic expression of OSM in Escherichia coli results in inclusion bodies, 
and complex solubilisation, refolding and purification is required to prepare 
bioactive protein. Herein, eight N-terminal fusion variants of OSM with 
hexahistidine (His6) tag and seven solubility-enhancing tags, including 
thioredoxin (Trx), small ubiquitin-related modifier (Sumo), glutathione 
S-transferase (GST), maltose-binding protein (MBP), N-utilisation substance 
protein A (Nusa), human protein disulphide isomerase (PDI) and the b'a' domain 
of PDI (PDIb'a'), were tested for soluble OSM expression in E. coli. The 
His6-OSM plasmid was also introduced into genetically engineered Origami 2 and 
SHuffle strains to test expression of the protein. At 18 °C, MBP-tagged OSM was 
highly expressed and solubility was dramatically enhanced. In addition, His6-OSM 
was more highly expressed and soluble in Origami 2 and SHuffle strains than in 
BL21(DE3). MBP-OSM and His6-OSM were purified more than 95% with yields of 
11.02 mg and 3.27 mg from a 500 mL culture. Protein identity was confirmed by 
mass spectroscopy, and bioactivity was demonstrated by in vitro inhibition of 
Th17 cell differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-50110-6
PMCID: PMC6757106
PMID: 31548569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


792. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 3;9(3):e89906. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089906. eCollection 
2014.

Soluble prokaryotic overexpression and purification of bioactive human 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor by maltose binding protein and protein 
disulfide isomerase.

Do BH(1), Ryu HB(1), Hoang P(1), Koo BK(1), Choe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biomedical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (hGCSF), a neutrophil-promoting 
cytokine, is an effective therapeutic agent for neutropenia patients who have 
undergone several cancer treatments. Efficient production of hGCSF using E. coli 
is challenging because the hormone tends to aggregate and forms inclusion 
bodies. This study examined the ability of seven different N-terminal fusion 
tags to increase expression of soluble hGCSF in E. coli. Four tag proteins, 
namely maltose-binding protein (MBP), N-utilization substance protein A, protein 
disulfide isomerase (PDI), and the b'a' domain of PDI (PDIb'a'), increased the 
solubility of hGCSF under normal conditions. Lowering the expression temperature 
from 30°C to 18°C also increased the solubility of thioredoxin-tagged and 
glutathione S-transferase-tagged hGCSF. By contrast, hexahistidine-tagged hGCSF 
was insoluble at both temperatures. Simple conventional chromatographic methods 
were used to purify hGCSF from the overexpressed PDIb'a'-hGCSF and MBP-hGCSF 
proteins. In total, 11.3 mg or 10.2 mg of pure hGCSF were obtained from 500 mL 
cultures of E. coli expressing PDIb'a'-hGCSF or MBP-hGCSF, respectively. 
SDS-PAGE analysis and silver staining confirmed high purity of the isolated 
hGCSF proteins, and the endotoxin levels were less than 0.05 EU/µg of protein. 
Subsequently, the bioactivity of the purified hGCSF proteins similar to that of 
the commercially available hGCSF was confirmed using the mouse M-NFS-60 
myelogenous leukemia cell line. The EC50s of the cell proliferation 
dose-response curves for hGCSF proteins purified from MBP-hGCSF and 
PDIb'a'-hGCSF were 2.83±0.31 pM, and 3.38±0.41 pM, respectively. In summary, 
this study describes an efficient method for the soluble overexpression and 
purification of bioactive hGCSF in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089906
PMCID: PMC3940694
PMID: 24594699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have applied 
for a Korean patent on the method of producing hGCSF in E. coli: The patent 
titled ‘Soluble expression and purification method of active recombinant human 
GCSF’ has been filed at the Korea Patent Office on Sept. 26, 2013. The patent 
application number is ‘10-2013-0114432’. This patent application does not alter 
the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and 
materials. Therefore all materials presented in the manuscript will be freely 
available to the scientific community although not for commercial purposes.


793. ACS Omega. 2021 Apr 28;6(18):12004-12013. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.1c00577. 
eCollection 2021 May 11.

Enhancement of Solubility, Purification, and Inclusion Body Refolding of Active 
Human Mitochondrial Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 2.

Zhao T(1)(2), Huang H(1)(2), Tan P(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), Xuan X(1)(2), Li F(1), 
Zhao Y(1)(2), Cao Y(1)(2), Wu Z(1)(2), Jiang Y(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2), Yu A(1)(2), 
Wang K(1)(2), Xu J(1)(2), Zhou L(1)(2), Yang D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harbin Medical University, 
Harbin 150081, China.
(2)Translational Medicine Center of Northern China, Harbin 150081, China.

Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) is predominantly linked with 
acetaldehyde detoxification in the second stage of alcohol metabolism. To 
intensively study ALDH2 function, a higher purity and uniform composition of the 
protein is required. An efficient Escherichia coli system for ALDH2 expression 
was developed by using His and a small ubiquitin-related modifier fusion tag. 
Most of the recombinant ALDH2s were expressed in the form of inclusion bodies. 
The ALDH2-enriched inclusion bodies were denatured with 6 M guanidine 
hydrochloride, and then ALDH2 was ultrafitrated. Finally, ALDH2 was successfully 
purified through affinity and gel filtration chromatography. The purified ALDH2 
was finally preserved by the vacuum freeze-drying method, and its purity was 
determined to be higher than 95%, with a final media yield of 33.89 mg/L. The 
specific activity of ALDH2 was 6.1 × 104 U/mg. This work was the first to report 
pET-SUMO-ALDH2 recombinant plasmid expression in Escherichia coli, and the 
inclusion bodies were isolated and refolded. Finally, the purified ALDH2 had 
relatively higher purity, yield, and biological activity.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.1c00577
PMCID: PMC8154035
PMID: 34056354

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


794. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2005;6(2-3):103-11. doi: 10.1007/s10969-005-2664-4.

Enhanced expression and purification of membrane proteins by SUMO fusion in 
Escherichia coli.

Zuo X(1), Li S, Hall J, Mattern MR, Tran H, Shoo J, Tan R, Weiss SR, Butt TR.

Author information:
(1)LifeSensors, Inc., 271 Great Valley Parkway, Malvern, PA 19355, USA.

Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) membrane protein and 
5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) are among a large number of membrane 
proteins that are poorly expressed when traditional expression systems and 
methods are employed. Therefore to efficiently express difficult membrane 
proteins, molecular biologists will have to develop novel or innovative 
expression systems. To this end, we have expressed the SARS-CoV M and FLAP 
proteins in Escherichia coli by utilizing a novel gene fusion expression system 
that takes advantage of the natural chaperoning properties of the SUMO (small 
ubiquitin-related modifier) tag. These chaperoning properties facilitate proper 
protein folding, which enhances the solubility and biological activity of the 
purified protein. In addition to these advantages, we found that SUMO Protease 
1, can cleave the SUMO fusion high specificity to generate native protein. 
Herein, we demonstrate that the expression of FLAP and SARS-CoV membrane 
proteins are greatly enhanced by SUMO fusions in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-005-2664-4
PMCID: PMC7088008
PMID: 16211506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Yi Chuan. 2006 Dec;28(12):1532-40. doi: 10.1360/yc-006-1532.

[Cloning, sequencing and prokaryotic expression of cDNAs for the antifreeze 
protein family from the beetle Tenebrio molitor].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu ZY(1), Wang Y, Lü GD, Wang XL, Zhang FC, Ma J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Xinjiang University Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic 
Engineering, Urumqi 830046, China. lzy1168@163.com

The partial cDNA sequence coding for the antifreeze proteins in the Tenebrio 
molitor was obtained by RT-PCR. Sequence analysis revealed nine putative cDNAs 
with a high degree of homology to Tenebrio molitor antifreeze proteins. The 
recombinant pGEX-4T-1-tmafp-XJ430 was introduced into E. coli BL21 to induce a 
GST fusion protein by IPTG. SDS-PAGE of the fusion protein demonstrated that the 
antifreeze protein migrated at a size of 38 kDa. The immunization was performed 
by intra-muscular injection of pCDNA3-tmafp-XJ430, and then antiserum was 
detected by ELISA. The titer of the antibody was 1:2,000. Western blotting 
analysis showed the antiserum was specific against the antifreeze protein. This 
finding could lead to further investigation of the properties and function of 
antifreeze proteins.

DOI: 10.1360/yc-006-1532
PMID: 17138539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2019 Jun 25;35(6):1117-1125. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.190011.

[Bacterial expression, preparation and identification of polyclonal antibody 
against Escherichia coli FtsZ].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Chen Y(1), Niu X(1), Li M(1), Li N(2), Liu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Pharmaceutical Screening & Evaluation, Wannan Medical 
College, Wuhu 241002, Anhui, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Function of Natural 
Medicine, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China.

To prepare polyclonal antibody (PcAb) against Escherichia coli filamentous 
thermosensitive protein Z (Ec-FtsZ), the artificially synthesized gene fragment 
coding Ec-FtsZ was subcloned into pET-22b(+) plasmid, and Ec-FtsZ protein was 
expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) cell under an optimal bacterial expression 
condition. Then Ec-FtsZ protein was purified by HisTrap affinity chromatography, 
and the GTPase (Guanosine triphosphatase) activity of purified Ec-FtsZ protein 
was further analyzed by malachite green assay. Subsequently, the purified 
Ec-FtsZ protein was used to immunize rat subcutaneously for preparation of 
anti-Ec-FtsZ PcAb. The results of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), 
Western blotting analysis and immunofluorescence assay showed that the titer of 
PcAb was 1:256 000, and PcAb exhibited a perfect antigenic specificity against 
purified and endogenous Ec-FtsZ protein. All these data indicated that the 
anti-Ec-FtsZ PcAb is successfully prepared, which can be used for further 
cellular function study and biochemical analysis of Ec-FtsZ protein in vivo.

Publisher: 为制备特异性抗大肠杆菌丝状热敏蛋白Z (Escherichia coli filamentous thermosensitive 
protein Z，Ec-FtsZ)多克隆抗体，将Ec-FtsZ 基因进行化学合成后连接pET-22b(+) 
表达载体，构建重组质粒Ec-FtsZ-pET-22b(+)。将重组质粒转化到大肠杆菌E. coli BL21(DE3) 中进行Ec-FtsZ 
原核表达与表达条件优化，以HisTrap 层析柱进行Ec-FtsZ 的分离纯化，再以孔雀绿法进行Ec-FtsZ GTPase (Guanosine 
triphosphatase) 活性测定。使用纯化的Ec-FtsZ为抗原免疫大鼠制备多克隆抗体，经酶联免疫吸附测定实验 (Enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay，ELISA)、Western blotting 实验和免疫荧光实验鉴定，抗Ec-FtsZ 多克隆抗体效价可达1∶256 
000 且具有良好的抗原特异性。抗Ec-FtsZ 多克隆抗体的成功制备为Ec-FtsZ 生物学功能研究和生化检测奠定了实验基础。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.190011
PMID: 31232008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 May;181:105832. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105832. Epub 
2021 Jan 29.

Sampling the cultivation parameter space for the bacterial production of TLR1 
intracellular domain reveals the multiple optima.

Goncharuk MV(1), Lushpa VA(2), Goncharuk SA(3), Arseniev AS(3), Mineev KS(3).

Author information:
(1)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 117997, Miklukho-Maklaya str., 16/10, Moscow, Russia. 
Electronic address: m.s.goncharuk@gmail.com.
(2)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 117997, Miklukho-Maklaya str., 16/10, Moscow, Russia; 
Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, 141701, Institutsky per, 9, 
Dolgoprudny, Russia.
(3)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 117997, Miklukho-Maklaya str., 16/10, Moscow, Russia.

T7 expression system is an extremely popular approach for the recombinant 
protein production in Escherichia coli for structural and functional studies and 
therapeutic applications. There are many useful tools and successful techniques 
that allow expressing the desired protein in this system. However, high yield of 
soluble protein often requires a systematic optimization of a wide range of cell 
cultivation parameters. Here we analyze the effect of three key cultivation 
parameters - chemical inductor, temperature and time of post-induction culturing 
on the expression level of TLR1 intracellular TIR domain in a soluble form. In 
addition, the influence of Triton X-100 detergent on the protein solubility 
during the cell lysis was investigated. We show that a high expression level of 
the correctly folded soluble protein can be obtained under different 
combinations of cultivation parameters.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105832
PMID: 33516826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2007 Mar;72(3):313-9. doi: 10.1134/s0006297907030091.

N-terminus deletion affecting the preparation of soluble cyanobacterial 
glutaredoxin in Escherichia coli.

Li M(1), Yang Q, Gao Y, Wu Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, PR China.

Glutaredoxin has been implicated in maintenance of a normal cellular 
thiol/disufide ratio and the regeneration of oxidatively damaged proteins. In 
order to obtain more information about these important regulatory proteins in 
cyanobacteria, we have previously cloned and expressed the first cyanobacterial 
glutaredoxin gene ssr2061 in Escherichia coli. In this work, the second 
glutaredoxin gene slr1562 was studied. About 90% of Grx2061 coded by ssr2061 was 
produced in a soluble form while 90% of Grx1562 coded by slr1562 was found in 
inclusion bodies. To improve the production of soluble Grx1562, we constructed 
two mutants: Grx1562NC with cysteines in conserved site substituted by serines, 
and Grx1562M with N-terminus hydrophobic region deletion. Only the latter mutant 
was successfully expressed in soluble form with increased glutaredoxin activity 
and showed less sensitivity in oxidative stress. Spectroscopic analysis shows 
that the structure of Grx1562M with less hydrophobic nature could give more 
opportunity for protein solubility and could improve the substrate catalytic 
efficiency. These results suggest that hydrophobic N-terminus determines the 
insolubility of Grx1562 and may provide another strategy for increasing 
expression level of soluble heterologous proteins in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1134/s0006297907030091
PMID: 17447885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Virol J. 2018 Jun 19;15(1):103. doi: 10.1186/s12985-018-1013-8.

Trigger factor assisted self-assembly of canine parvovirus VP2 protein into 
virus-like particles in Escherichia coli with high immunogenicity.

Nan L(1)(2), Liu Y(2), Ji P(3), Feng H(2), Chen C(1), Wang J(4), Liu D(4), Cui 
Y(2)(3), Wang Y(2), Li Y(1)(2), Zhou E(1), Zhang G(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 712100, 
China.
(2)Henan Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Zhengzhou, 450002, China.
(3)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China.
(4)Henan Zhongze Biological Engineering Co., Ltd., Zhengzhou, 450019, China.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 712100, 
China. zhanggaiping2003@163.com.
(6)Henan Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Zhengzhou, 450002, China. zhanggaiping2003@163.com.
(7)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural 
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China. zhanggaiping2003@163.com.

Canine parvovirus (CPV) has been considered to be an important pathogen, which 
can cause acute infectious disease in canids. Although current vaccines are 
effective in preventing CPV infection, safety problems still remain unsolved. In 
this study, a subunit vaccine against CPV based on virus-like particles (VLPs) 
with good safety and immunogenicity is reported. Soluble CPV VP2 protein was 
produced by co-expression of chaperone trigger factor (Tf16) in Escherichia coli 
(E.coli), and assembled into CPV VLPs which could be affected by NaCl and pH. At 
250 mM NaCl pH 8.0, the VLPs co-expressed with Tf16 had similar size (25 nm) and 
shape with the authentic virus capsid under the transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM), which is also in accordance with the dynamic light scattering (DLS) data. 
Immunization with these particles could induce high-titer hemagglutination 
inhibition (1:12288) and neutralizing antibodies (1:6144) in guinea pigs. 
Splenic cells of them could secrete IFN-γ and IL-4 after stimulation by CPV. 
Thus, the VLPs produced by the new approach with high yield and immunogenicity 
could be a potential candidate for CPV vaccine.

DOI: 10.1186/s12985-018-1013-8
PMCID: PMC6008937
PMID: 29921294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
animal experiments were approved by Animal Experiment Committee of Henan Academy 
of Agricultural Sciences with the approval number (SYXK 2014–0007). The 
protocols were performed in accordance with the guidelines for the Welfare and 
Ethics of Laboratory Animals of China. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


800. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2015 Feb;31(2):206-19.

[Production of coenzyme Q10 by metabolically engineered Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Dai G, Miao L, Sun T, Li Q, Xiao D, Zhang X.

Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a lipophilic antioxidant that improves human immunity, 
delays senility and enhances the vitality of the human body and has wide 
applications in pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. Microbial fermentation 
is a sustainable way to produce CoQ10, and attracts increased interest. In this 
work, the native CoQ8 synthetic pathway of Escherichia coli was replaced by the 
CoQ10 synthetic pathway through integrating decaprenyl diphosphate synthase gene 
(dps) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides into chromosome of E. coli ATCC 8739, 
followed by deletion of the native octaprenyl diphosphate synthase gene (ispB). 
The resulting strain GD-14 produced 0.68 mg/L CoQ10 with a yield of 0.54 mg/g 
DCW. Modulation of dxs and idi genes of the MEP pathway and ubiCA genes in 
combination led to 2.46-fold increase of CoQ10 production (from 0.54 to 1.87 
mg/g DCW). Recruiting glucose facilitator protein of Zymomonas mobilis to 
replace the native phosphoenolpyruvate: carbohydrate phosphotransferase systems 
(PTS) further led to a 16% increase of CoQ10 yield. Finally, fed-batch 
fermentation of the best strain GD-51 was performed, which produced 433 mg/L 
CoQ10 with a yield of 11.7 mg/g DCW. To the best of our knowledge, this was the 
highest CoQ10 titer and yield obtained for engineered E. coli.

PMID: 26062342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2007 Feb 
28;25(1):1-5.

[Expression and immunogenicity evaluation of ectodomain and subdomains of 
Plasmodium berghei apical membrane antigen 1].

[Article in Chinese]

Li SL(1), Zhang DM, Cao Y, Pan WQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Etiological Biology, The Second Military Medical University, 
Shanghai 200433, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express and evaluate the immunogenicity of ectodomain and its 
subdomains of Plasmodium berghei apical membrane antigen I (PbAMA-1).
METHODS: Sequence of PbAMA-I gene was isolated from the genome of P. berghei, 
and was redesigned and divided into three overlapped fragments according to its 
subdomain structure. The codon-optimized DNA fragments of PbAMA-1 were 
synthesized and inserted into vector pET32a for expression in E. coli and the 
recombinant proteins were purified by Ni-NTA column, followed by refolding in 
vitro. Mice and rabbits were immunized with the recombinant proteins formulated 
with Freund adjuvant. Titer of the specific antibodies was detected by ELISA and 
IFA. The immunized mice were challenged by P. berghei to evaluate protective 
efficacy in vivo.
RESULTS: The sequence of the PbAMA-1 gene was shown to be identical to that 
published before. PbAMA-1 sequence was redesigned via codon optimization and 
synthesized. Both ectodomain and its subdomains of PbAMA-1 were successfully 
expressed in E. coli after induction. The proteins were isolated with the purity 
of more than 90% after Ni column purification and refolding in vitro. 
Immunization of mice with the recombinant proteins induced high level of 
specific antibodies. The antibody titer to ectodomain E after the 3rd 
immunization showed a strong immunogenicity at (34.4+/-0.15) x 10(-4). The 
antibodies interacted with the parasites by indirect fluorescence. The immunized 
mice were partially protected from the challenge of P. berghei.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant PbAMA-1 is highly immunogenic and induces protective 
immunity against the challenge of P. berghei.

PMID: 17639690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2006 Nov;26(11):1552-5.

[Construction of a recombinant adenovirus vector for interferon-gamma-inducible 
protein 10 and the adenovirus preparation].

[Article in Chinese]

Shao ZY(1), Liu ZF, Peng Y, Xu J, Deng P, Jiang Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Functional Proteomics of Guangdong Province, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant adenovirus vector for expressing 
interferon-gamma-inducible protein 10 (IP-10) by homogenous bacterial 
recombination.
METHODS: IP-10 gene was cloned into the shuttle plasmid pAdTrack-CMV that 
contained the coding sequence of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). The 
shuttle plasmid was then transformed into E. coli BJ5183 with pAdEasy-1 vector 
by chemical transformation. The recombinant adenovirus vector pAd/IP-10 was 
identified by enzyme digestion with Pac I and the linearized plasmid was 
transfected into HEK293 cells.
RESULTS: The positive clones were identified with enzyme digestion and 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and were further verified by DNA sequencing. The 
recombinant adenovirus of high titration was obtained after transfection and 
packaging in HEK293 cells.
CONCLUSION: A recombinant adenovirus vector for expression of IP-10 has been 
constructed successfully and high-titer active adenovirus is obtained for 
functional study of IP-10 protein.

PMID: 17121697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Protein Pept Lett. 2016;23(1):33-42. doi: 10.2174/0929866522666151026122116.

Designing and structure evaluation of multi-epitope vaccine against ETEC and 
EHEC, an in silico approach.

Jeshvaghani FS(1), Rahjerdi AK, Amani J, Rad I, Jafari M, Salmanian AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Shahrak-e-Pajoohesh, 15th Km, Tehran 
-Karaj Highway, P.O. Box: 14965-161, Tehran, Iran. salman@nigeb.ac.ir.

Diarrheal diseases represent a major health problem in developing countries. 
Several viruses and bacterial agents, such as Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli 
(ETEC) and Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) are responsible for human 
enteric infections. In humans, EHEC infections result in bloody or non-bloody 
diarrhea, which may be complicated by haemorrhagic colitis and haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome (HUS). Infection by ETEC is accompanied by a non inflammatory 
watery diarrhea. E. coli follows a common strategy of infection: colonization on 
a mucosal site, evasion of host defenses, multiplication, and host damage. 
Intimin, Stx, Lt and Cfa proteins are the virulence factors expressed by these 
strains. Antibiotic treatment is generally not recommended for most cases of 
diarrhea, since antibiotic usage may lead to antibiotic resistance in ETEC and 
may also change the intestinal flora. We hypothesized that the chimeric forms of 
these effectors as vaccine candidates would reduce the colonization of bacteria. 
This study is based on an in silico analysis of chimeric protein structure and 
its stability and solubility. The secondary and tertiary structures of selected 
domains were also predicted. Moreover, T and B cell epitopes were mapped. 
Protein structure Prediction showed that each domain of antigen was separated 
completely also stable for recombinant expression. We believe that this chimeric 
vaccine candidate is effective for prevention of bacteria caused diarrheal 
diseases.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866522666151026122116
PMID: 26497319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2007 Jun;47(3):512-6.

[Application of the recombinant protein MOMP(VD2-VD3) from Chlamydia pneumoniae 
in sero diagnosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou Z(1), Wu YM, Liu J, Chen CQ, Yang L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathogenic Biology, Nanhua University, Hengyang 421001, China. 
susiezhou99@hotmail.com

To express the recombinant protein MOMP(VD2-VD3) of Chlamydia pneumoniae, and 
research on the immunocompetence of the MOMP(VD2-VD3) to support 
serodiagnosis,PCR and gene recombinant technique was used to clone the targeted 
DNA fragment from a strain AR-39. The recombinant plasmid was induced in E. coli 
BL21 after having constructed the prokaryotic expression system, then the 
immunocompetence of the expression product was analyzed by Western blot and 
indirected ELISA which is based on the animal experimentation. A group of 
control sera and 126 sera from patients with coronary heart disease were 
examined by using ELISAs based on the recombinant protein (MOMP(VD2-VD3), and 
then the results were evaluated comparing with a commercial ELISAs kit. The 
results of the Western blot and indirected ELISA showed ompA(VD2-VD3) gene 
inserted in pET30a could express a recombinant protein with the molecular weight 
of 24kDa in BL21 and specifically reacted with the antibodies against the MOMP. 
Specific humoral response was elicited after immune the BALB/c mouse with 
protein and the specific antibody titer was more than 1:20480. Using a panel of 
control sera, the participation of the recombinant antigen, the sensitivity and 
the specificity of the indirected ELISAs were 100% respectively. Comparisons 
between two methods in detecting 126 sero samples, the concordance of two tests 
was 96.3%. The results reported here show that the recombinant protein with 
excellent immunocompetence could benefit the research on the serodiagnosis to 
Chlamydia pneumoniae.

PMID: 17672316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Protein Expr Purif. 2001 Jul;22(2):349-58. doi: 10.1006/prep.2001.1445.

Expression of active human C1 inhibitor serpin domain in Escherichia coli.

Lamark T(1), Ingebrigtsen M, Bjørnstad C, Melkko T, Mollnes TE, Nielsen EW.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacy, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, 9037, Norway. 
trondl@farmasi.uit.no

Human C1 inhibitor is a highly glycosylated serine protease inhibitor of the 
serpin family. The protein contains two disulfide bonds. In this study, an 
N-terminally truncated form of recombinant C1 inhibitor was overexpressed in 
Escherichia coli strains BL21(DE3) and AD494(DE3), the latter enabling the 
formation of disulfide bonds within the cytoplasm. With both strains, a major 
fraction of the recombinant protein produced appeared to be insoluble. However, 
the soluble fraction of lysates from strain AD494(DE3) inhibited the C1s target 
protease in functional assays. Recombinant C1 inhibitor produced in this strain 
also displayed the ability to complex with C1s in vitro. In contrast, lysates 
from strain BL21(DE3) displayed no C1 inhibitor activity. These data support the 
notion that glycosylation is not important, whereas disulfide bond formation 
appears to be essential for the production of an active recombinant C1 
inhibitor. Thus, bacterial strains that permit the formation of disulfide bonds 
may represent a reliable system for the production of recombinant C1 inhibitor. 
However, a major obstacle to large-scale production will be to produce the 
protein in a soluble form. Attempts to increase the yield of soluble protein by 
coexpression of the GroEL/ES chaperonins resulted in an increase in solubility.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/prep.2001.1445
PMID: 11437612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Jul;135:54-60. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.04.015. Epub 
2017 May 10.

Expression of recombinant truncated domains of mucus-binding (Mub) protein of 
Lactobacillus plantarum in soluble and biologically active form.

Singh KS(1), Choudhary R(1), Bisht S(1), Grover S(2), Kumar S(1), Mohanty AK(1), 
Kaushik JK(3).

Author information:
(1)Animal Biotechnology Centre, ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, 
Haryana, India.
(2)Dairy Microbiology Division, ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, 
Haryana, India.
(3)Animal Biotechnology Centre, ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, 
Haryana, India. Electronic address: jaikr1@gmail.com.

Mucins amount to 70% of total proteins present in mammalian mucus and serve as 
important substrata for bacterial adhesion. In probiotic bacteria such as 
Lactobacillus plantarum, surface adhesion proteins mediate its adhesion to mucus 
and adhesion is pivotal in bi-directional host-microbe interactions. Mucus 
binding (Mub) proteins are a group of bacterial surface adhesion proteins that 
bind to mucin proteins. The structural framework and functional role of these 
proteins needs immediate attention but is poorly understood because of their 
large size, low yield and lack of highly purified protein. The lp_1643 gene of 
L. plantarum encodes a large Mub protein of 240 kDa and has six mucus binding 
(Mub) domains in tandem. In this study, the fragment of lp_1643 containing the 
last two domains with their preceding spacers herein referred to as Mubs5s6 was 
cloned and expressed in E. coli for probing its functional role in the adhesion 
of L. plantarum. The protein was expressed with a solubility enhancing maltose 
binding protein (MBP) fusion tag, yet the MBP-Mubs5s6 protein expressed majorly 
(>90%) as biologically insoluble inclusion bodies. Thus, extensive optimization 
of culture conditions was carried out to achieve high level soluble expression 
(∼70%) of Mubs5s6 protein from its initial low level of solubility. The 
recombinant protein was purified up to homogeneity by affinity chromatography. 
Recombinant MBP-Mubs5s6 protein showed strong adhesion potential by binding with 
human intestinal tissue sections. Our results show a step-by-step hierarchical 
approach to improve the solubility of difficult-to-express extracellular surface 
proteins while retaining high functional viability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.04.015
PMID: 28499579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Mar;167:105540. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105540. Epub 
2019 Nov 15.

N-terminal fusion of the N-terminal domain of bacterial enzyme I facilitates 
recombinant expression and purification of the human RNA demethylases FTO and 
Alkbh5.

Khatiwada B(1), Purslow JA(1), Underbakke ES(2), Venditti V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, USA.
(2)Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology, 
Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, USA; Roy J. 
Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology, Iowa State 
University, Ames, IA, 50011, USA. Electronic address: venditti@iastate.edu.

Various fusion tags are commonly employed to increase the heterologous 
expression and solubility of aggregation-prone proteins within Escherichia coli. 
Herein, we present a protocol for efficient recombinant expression and 
purification of the human RNA demethylases Alkbh5 and FTO. Our method 
incorporates a novel fusion tag (the N-terminal domain of bacterial enzyme I, 
EIN) that dramatically increases the solubility of its fusion partner and is 
promptly removed upon digestion with a protease. The presented protocol allows 
for the production of mg amounts of Alkbh5 and FTO in 1L of both rich and 
minimal media. We developed a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry 
(LC-MS)-based assay to confirm that both proteins are enzymatically active. 
Furthermore, the LC-MS method developed here is applicable to other members of 
the AlkB family of Fe(II)/α-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases. The superior 
protein yield, afforded by our expression and purification method, will 
facilitate biochemical investigations into the biological function of the human 
RNA demethylases and endorse employment of EIN as a broadly applicable fusion 
tag for recombinant expression projects.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105540
PMCID: PMC6942671
PMID: 31740367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2006 Aug;148(2):144-60. doi: 
10.1016/j.molbiopara.2006.03.011. Epub 2006 Apr 18.

Heterologous expression of proteins from Plasmodium falciparum: results from 
1000 genes.

Mehlin C(1), Boni E, Buckner FS, Engel L, Feist T, Gelb MH, Haji L, Kim D, Liu 
C, Mueller N, Myler PJ, Reddy JT, Sampson JN, Subramanian E, Van Voorhis WC, 
Worthey E, Zucker F, Hol WG.

Author information:
(1)Structural Genomics of Pathogenic Protozoa, Box 357350, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. cmehlin@u.washington.edu

As part of a structural genomics initiative, 1000 open reading frames from 
Plasmodium falciparum, the causative agent of the most deadly form of malaria, 
were tested in an E. coli protein expression system. Three hundred and 
thirty-seven of these targets were observed to express, although typically the 
protein was insoluble. Sixty-three of the targets provided soluble protein in 
yields ranging from 0.9 to 406.6 mg from one liter of rich media. Higher 
molecular weight, greater protein disorder (segmental analysis, SEG), more basic 
isoelectric point (pI), and a lack of homology to E. coli proteins were all 
highly and independently correlated with difficulties in expression. 
Surprisingly, codon usage and the percentage of adenosines and thymidines (%AT) 
did not appear to play a significant role. Of those proteins which expressed, 
high pI and a hypothetical annotation were both strongly and independently 
correlated with insolubility. The overwhelmingly important role of pI in both 
expression and solubility appears to be a surprising and fundamental issue in 
the heterologous expression of P. falciparum proteins in E. coli. Twelve targets 
which did not express in E. coli from the native gene sequence were 
codon-optimized through whole gene synthesis, resulting in the (insoluble) 
expression of three of these proteins. Seventeen targets which were expressed 
insolubly in E. coli were moved into a baculovirus/Sf-21 system, resulting in 
the soluble expression of one protein at a high level and six others at a low 
level. A variety of factors conspire to make the heterologous expression of P. 
falciparum proteins challenging, and these observations lay the groundwork for a 
rational approach to prioritizing and, ultimately, eliminating these 
impediments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molbiopara.2006.03.011
PMID: 16644028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Feb;46(2):203-208. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-018-02128-4. Epub 2019 Jan 22.

Metabolic engineering of Corynebacterium glutamicum by synthetic small 
regulatory RNAs.

Sun D(1)(2)(3), Chen J(2)(3), Wang Y(2)(3), Li M(1)(2)(3), Rao D(2)(3), Guo 
Y(3), Chen N(1), Zheng P(4)(5), Sun J(6)(7), Ma Y(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, 
Tianjin, 300457, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China.
(3)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China. zheng_p@tib.cas.cn.
(5)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, China. zheng_p@tib.cas.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China. sun_jb@tib.cas.cn.
(7)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, China. sun_jb@tib.cas.cn.

Corynebacterium glutamicum is an important platform strain that is wildly used 
in industrial production of amino acids and various other biochemicals. However, 
due to good genomic stability, C. glutamicum is more difficult to engineer than 
genetically tractable hosts. Herein, a synthetic small regulatory RNA 
(sRNA)-based gene knockdown strategy was developed for C. glutamicum. The RNA 
chaperone Hfq from Escherichia coli and a rationally designed sRNA consisting of 
the E. coli MicC scaffold and a target binding site were proven to be 
indispensable for repressing green fluorescent protein expression in C. 
glutamicum. The synthetic sRNA system was applied to improve glutamate 
production through knockdown of pyk, ldhA, and odhA, resulting almost a 
threefold increase in glutamate titer and yield. Gene transcription and enzyme 
activity were down-regulated by up to 80%. The synthetic sRNA system developed 
holds promise to accelerate C. glutamicum metabolic engineering for producing 
valuable chemicals and fuels.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-018-02128-4
PMID: 30666532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Mar;82(1):186-91. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.01.002. Epub 
2012 Jan 10.

Cloning, soluble expression, rapid purification and characterization of human 
Cofilin1.

Lu JX(1), Xiang YF, Zhang JX, Ju HQ, Chen ZP, Wang QL, Chen W, Peng XL, Han B, 
Wang YF.

Author information:
(1)Biomedicine Research and Development Center, Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Bioengineering Medicine, National Engineering Research Center of 
Genetic Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China.

Cofilin1 is an actin-binding protein that plays a critical role in the 
regulation of actin cytoskeleton and consequently affects various physiological 
processes. In this study, the human Cofilin1 cDNA was cloned into the expression 
vector pET-28a(+) with a 6 × His tag and expressed as soluble protein in 
Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). Approximately 78 mg of Cofilin1, which showed high 
activity as determined by native PAGE, could be purified from each liter of LB 
medium by His-tag affinity chromatography and gel filtration. Further, 
high-titer IgG against Cofilin1 was positively detected after immunization in 
rabbits and the polyclonal antibodies were purified and identified. Together, 
this report provides the first protocol to efficiently obtain human Cofilin1 
with high biological activity and immunogenicity using E. coli BL21 (DE3) 
expression system.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.01.002
PMID: 22251882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Molecules. 2021 Sep 26;26(19):5830. doi: 10.3390/molecules26195830.

Enhanced Production of a Thermostable Carbonic Anhydrase in Escherichia coli by 
Using a Modified NEXT Tag.

Hwang IS(1), Kim JH(2), Jo BH(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 
52828, Korea.
(2)Division of Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, Korea.
(3)Division of Life Science and Research Institute of Life Science, Gyeongsang 
National University, Jinju 52828, Korea.

Carbonic anhydrase (CA) is an ultrafast enzyme that catalyzes the reversible 
conversion of carbon dioxide (CO2) to bicarbonate. CA is considered to be a 
green catalyst for enzyme-based CO2 capture and utilization. In particular, the 
CA of Thermovibrio ammonificans (taCA) has attracted increasing attention as a 
highly stable enzyme. However, the poor solubility and the low expression level 
in Escherichia coli have hampered further utilization of taCA. In a recent 
study, these limitations were partly resolved by using a small 
solubility-enhancing fusion tag named NEXT, which originates from the N-terminal 
extension of Hydrogenovibrio marinus CA. In this study, the NEXT tag was 
engineered by adding small peptides to the N terminus to further increase the 
production yield of NEXT-tagged taCA. The addition of ng3 peptide (His-Gly-Asn) 
originating from the N-terminal sequence of Neisseria gonorrhoeae CA improved 
the expression of NEXT-taCA, while the previously developed 
translation-enhancing element (TEE) and Ser-Lys-Ile-Lys (SKIK) tag were not 
effective. The expression test with all 16 codon combinations for the ng3 
sequence revealed that the change in translation initiation rate brought about 
by the change in nucleotide sequence was not the primary determinant for the 
change in expression level. The modified ng3-NEXT tag may be applied to increase 
the production yields of various recombinant proteins.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26195830
PMCID: PMC8510462
PMID: 34641375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


812. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2014 Apr;32(2):86-91.

[Prokaryotic expression and function analysis of Schistosoma japonicum calpain].

[Article in Chinese]

Du XF, Xu B, Liu J, Wang JP, Liu M, Liu XF, Ma XL, Hu W, Ju C.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express recombinant calpain of Schistosoma japonicum 
(Sjcalpain), observe the distribution of Sjcalpain in S. japonicum cercariae and 
analyze its role in skin invasion.
METHODS: The primers were designed according to the full-length sequence of 
calpain (GenBank accession No. AB016726). The genes encoding catalytic domain 
and Ca2+ binding domain of Sjcalpain were amplified by PCR, and the target 
fragments were subcloned into pET-28a. The recombinant proteins were expressed 
in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and purified by Ni-NTA resin. The rabbit polyclonal 
antibodies were prepared with the two purified recombinant proteins by 
immunizing New Zealand white rabbits. ELISA was used to detect the titer of 
rabbit antiserum. Immunolocalization was used to investigate the distribution of 
Sjcalpain in S. japonicum cercariae. Cercariae were incubated with specific 
inhibitor before infection of mice and the worm reduction rate was calculated.
RESULTS: The recombinant expression vector Sjcalpain catalytic domain/pET28a and 
Sjcalpain Ca2+ binding domain/pET28a were constructed and the recombinant 
proteins were successfully expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) (about M(r) 43 000 
and M(r) 39 000, respectively). The two target proteins were expressed as 
inclusion bodies. The purified target proteins were obtained through Ni-NTA 
affinity purification. ELISA result showed that the titer of prepared rabbit 
polyclonal antibodies was higher than 1 : 80 000. Immunolocalization study 
demonstrated that Sjcalpain protein was mainly expressed in the head of 
cercariae. Inhibition assays suggested that the average number of adult worms in 
calpain inhibitor-incubation group and control group was 19 and 23, 
respectively, with a worm reduction rate of 17.4%.
CONCLUSION: Sjcalpain is mainly expressed in the head of S. japonicum cercariae. 
Inhibition of Sjcalpain could reduce the number of invading cercariae in 
infected mice, which suggest that Sjcalpain may play a role in skin invasion by 
cercariae.

PMID: 25065204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Curr Protoc Mol Biol. 2018 Jul;123(1):e62. doi: 10.1002/cpmb.62. Epub 2018 Jun 
5.

An Effective Recombinant Protein Expression and Purification System in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Xie Y(1), Han X(2), Miao Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.

The expression and purification of recombinant proteins using bacterial vectors 
is a mature and preferred system to obtain folded and stable proteins. However, 
functional post-translational protein modifications, such as glycosylation or 
phosphorylation, can only be achieved using eukaryotic expression systems. In 
addition, insolubility is another challenge when using proteins expressed in 
Escherichia coli, such as certain intrinsically disordered proteins, which are 
more prone to aggregation than folded proteins. Eukaryotic protein expression 
systems, including human cells, baculovirus/insect cells, and yeast, have become 
indispensable for the production of functional eukaryotic proteins. This article 
describes a detailed protocol for performing cytosolic protein expression, 
protein purification, and protein characterization using the budding yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The introduced protein expression and purification 
system in yeast are advantageous due to the low cost, high yield, high protein 
solubility, and minimal expertise required. © 2018 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cpmb.62
PMID: 29927062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2009 Dec;75(24):7850-4. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01532-09. Epub 
2009 Oct 9.

Rehosting of bacterial chaperones for high-quality protein production.

Martínez-Alonso M(1), Toledo-Rubio V, Noad R, Unzueta U, Ferrer-Miralles N, Roy 
P, Villaverde A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biotechnology and Biomedicine, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193 Barcelona, Spain.

Coproduction of DnaK/DnaJ in Escherichia coli enhances solubility but promotes 
proteolytic degradation of their substrates, minimizing the yield of unstable 
polypeptides. Higher eukaryotes have orthologs of DnaK/DnaJ but lack the linked 
bacterial proteolytic system. By coexpression of DnaK and DnaJ in insect cells 
with inherently misfolding-prone recombinant proteins, we demonstrate 
simultaneous improvement of soluble protein yield and quality and proteolytic 
stability. Thus, undesired side effects of bacterial folding modulators can be 
avoided by appropriate rehosting in heterologous cell expression systems.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01532-09
PMCID: PMC2794089
PMID: 19820142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 Nov;163:105446. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105446. Epub 
2019 Jul 1.

Introduction of a C-terminal hexa-lysine tag increases thermal stability of the 
LacDiNac binding adhesin (LabA) exodomain from Helicobacter pylori.

Paraskevopoulou V(1), Artiaga VG(1), Rowlinson R(2), Winkler GS(1), Gellert 
P(3), Stolnik S(1), Overman R(2), Falcone FH(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, United 
Kingdom.
(2)AstraZeneca, Alderley Park, SK10 4TG, United Kingdom.
(3)AstraZeneca, Macclesfield, SK10 2NA, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: franco.falcone@nottingham.ac.uk.

Helicobacter pylori is a pathogenic microorganism infecting approximately 50% of 
the global population, and establishes life-long colonization despite the 
hostile stomach environment. H. pylori employs a wide range of outer membrane 
proteins (adhesins) for epithelial attachment, which specifically bind to 
glycans or non-carbohydrate structures expressed on the gastric epithelium. A 
recently described adhesin from H. pylori is LabA, named after its ability to 
bind to a disaccharide present in gastric mucus (LacdiNAc-specific adhesin). 
Here, we describe the recombinant expression of LabA from H. pylori strains J99 
and 26695 in E. coli. High yields of recombinant LabA were obtained using 
periplasmic expression. We found that the addition of a C-terminal hexalysine 
(6K) tag enhanced the thermal stability of LabA without affecting its secondary 
structure, using differential scanning fluorimetry and circular dichroism 
spectroscopy. In contrast to our previous report for another H. pylori adhesin 
(BabA), the 6K tag did not enhance recombinant protein yield or solubility. Both 
versions of LabA, with or without the 6K tag, were expressed and isolated from 
the periplasmic space of Escherichia coli, with a surprisingly high yield of at 
least 40 mg/L for each independent preparation, following a two-step 
purification protocol. The proteins were analyzed with mass spectrometry (MS). 
Unlike its reported effect on stability of BabA, the 6K tag did not appear to 
protect the N-term of recombinant LabA from partial periplasmic degradation.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105446
PMID: 31271862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 May;97(10):4333-42. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-013-4722-3. Epub 2013 Jan 31.

Expression of a hepatitis A virus antigen in Lactococcus lactis and Escherichia 
coli and evaluation of its immunogenicity.

Berlec A(1), Malovrh T, Zadravec P, Steyer A, Ravnikar M, Sabotič J, 
Poljšak-Prijatelj M, Štrukelj B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Jožef Stefan Institute, Jamova 39, 1000 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. ales.berlec@ijs.si

An epidemic shift in Hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection has been observed in 
recent years in rapidly developing countries, with increasing numbers of severe 
adult cases which has led to renewed interest in vaccination. Our approach in 
vaccine development uses recombinant expression of the highly immunogenic HAV 
antigen VP1-P2a in food-grade lactic acid bacterium Lactococcus lactis and in 
Escherichia coli. We used genetic constructs that enable nisin-controlled 
expression of the antigen in L. lactis in three different forms: (a) 
intracellularly, (b) on the bacterial surface and (c) on the bacterial surface 
fused with the fragment of the E. coli flagellin molecule that can act as a 
molecular adjuvant. Expression of the two surface forms of the antigen was 
achieved in L. lactis, and the resulting antigen-displaying bacteria were 
administered orally to mice. Half the animals in each of the two groups 
developed specific IgGs, with titers increasing over time and reaching 1:422 
without flagellin and 1:320 with flagellin. A much higher titer 1:25,803 was 
observed with the parenterally administered antigen, which was purified from E. 
coli. With the latter, a significant mucosal IgA response was also observed. 
Despite significant titers, the IgGs elicited with oral or parenteral 
administration could not prevent HAV from infecting cells in a virus 
neutralization assay, suggesting that the antibodies cannot recognize viral 
surface epitopes. Nevertheless, orally administered HAV antigen expressed in L. 
lactis elicited significant systemic humoral immune response showing the 
feasibility for development of effective HAV vaccine for mucosal delivery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-013-4722-3
PMID: 23371298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2008 May;28(5):731-5.

[Gene cloning, optimized expression and immunogenicity evaluation of tetanus 
toxin fragment C].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang MY(1), Zhang YN, Lei M, Zuo DM, Zhang LY, Chen ZL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, 
China. cxaini118@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To obtain highly purified tetanus toxin fragment C (TTC) with good 
immunogenicity.
METHODS: The gene fragment encoding TTC was amplified from Clostridium tetani 
plasmid DNA by PCR, inserted into the vector pET43.1a (+) and expressed in E. 
coli BL21(DE3)plysS. After purification using Ni2+-chelate affinity 
chromatography, the expressed fusion protein was digested by thrombin and the 
resultant TTC protein was purified with Ni2+-chelate affinity chromatography 
followed by identification with SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The purifed TTC 
protein was then used to immunize mice to test its immunogenecity.
RESULTS: The 1373-bp gene fragment encoding TTC was obtained, and the 
constructed recombinant expression vector pET43.1a (+)-TTC was successfully 
expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3)plysS. SDS-PAGE identified a recombinant fusion 
protein with relative molecular mass (Mr) of 117 000, which accounted for 22% of 
the total bacterial protein. The TTC protein with Mr of 50 000 was obtained 
after purification of the thrombin digestion products of the fusion protein, 
with a purity reaching 95.5%. Both the fusion protein and TTC protein could be 
recognized by anti-tetanus toxin antibody as shown by Western blotting. The 
titer of the anti-serum from mice immunized with the TTC protein was 1:25 600, 
and the anti-serum could specifically bind to tetanus toxin.
CONCLUSION: Highly purified and immunogenetic TTC protein has been successfully 
obtained, which provides a good model antigen for studying antigen presentation 
and immune responses in vivo.

PMID: 18504192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2007 Jan;23(1):27-32. doi: 
10.1016/s1872-2075(07)60003-x.

[Construction of recombinant adenovirus including microdystrophin and expression 
in the mesenchymal cells of mdx mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Xiong F(1), Zhang C, Xiao SB, Li MS, Wang SH, Yu MJ, Shang YC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Stem Cell Biology and Tissue Engineering of Sun Yat-sen University 
Guangzhou 510080, China.

Construction of recombinant adenovirus, which contain human microdystrophin, and 
then transfection into mesenchymal cells( MSCs) of mdx mice were done, and 
genetically-corrected isogenic MSCs were acquired; the MSCs transplantation into 
the mdx mice was then done to treat the Duchenne muscular dystrophy( DMD). 
Microdystrophin cDNA was obtained from recombinant plasmid pBSK-MICRO digested 
with restrictive endonuclease Not I ; the production was inserted directionally 
into pShuttle-CMV. The plasmid of pShuttle-CMV-MICRO was digested by Pme I , the 
fragment containing microdystrophin was reclaimed and transfected into E. coli 
BJ5183 with plasmid pAdeasy-1. After screening by selected media, the extracted 
plasmid of positive bacteria was transfected into HEK293 cells with liposome and 
was identified by observing the CPE of cells and by the PCR method. Finally, 
MSCs of mdx mice were infected with the culture media containing recombinant 
adenovirus, and the expression of microdystrophin was detected by RT-PCR and 
immunocytochemistry. Recombinant adenovirus including microdystrophin was 
constructed successfully and the titer of recombinant adenovirus was about 5.58 
x 10(12) vp/mL. The recombinant adenovirus could infect MSC of mdx mice and 
microdystrophin could be expressed in the MSC of mdx mice. Recombinant 
adenovirus including microdystrophin was constructed successfully, and the 
microdystrophin was expressed in the MSC of mdx mice. This lays the foundation 
for the further study of microdystrophin as a target gene to correct the 
dystrophin-defected MSC for stem cell transplantation to cure DMD.

DOI: 10.1016/s1872-2075(07)60003-x
PMID: 17366884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. J Vet Med Sci. 2021 Apr 3;83(3):441-446. doi: 10.1292/jvms.20-0385. Epub 2021 
Feb 8.

Recombinant unpurified rETX(H106P)/ CTB-rETX(Y196E) protects rabbits against 
Clostridium perfringens epsilon toxin.

Peng X(1), Li X(1), Peng G(1), Feng L(2), Jiang Y(1), Luo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacterial Biologics, China Institute of Veterinary Drug 
Control, No. 8 Zhongguancun South Street, Beijing 100-081, China.
(2)Beijing Zhonghai Biotech Co., Ltd., No. 8 Zhongguancun South Street, Beijing 
100-081, China.

Epsilon toxin (ETX), produced by Clostridium perfringens types B and D, has been 
touted as a potential biological weapon and is known to induce fatal 
enterotoxemia in a variety of livestock animals. For the efficient production of 
recombinant proteins with the objective of investigating the effects of 
different recombinant vaccines against ETX, a bicistronic design (BCD) 
expression system including the ETX coding sequence with mutation of amino acid 
106 from Histidine to Proline (ETXH106P) in the first cistron, followed by 
Cholera Toxin B (CTB) linked with the ETX coding sequence with mutation of amino 
acid 196 from Tyrosine to Glutamic acid (ETXY196E) in the second cistron, was 
generated under the control of a single promoter. Rabbits were immunized twice 
with five inactivated recombinant Escherichia coli (E. coli) vaccines containing 
100 µg/ml of the recombinant mutant rETXH106P/CTB-rETXY196E proteins mixed with 
different adjuvants. Apart from rETXH106P/CTB-rETXY196E-IMS1313-vaccinated 
rabbits, the neutralizing antibody titers of rETXH106P/CTB-rETXY196E-vaccinated 
rabbits were higher after the initial immunization than those administered the 
ETX toxoid or current commercial vaccines. rETXH106P/CTB-rETXY196E mixed with 
ISA201 induced the highest neutralizing antibody titer of 120 after the first 
immunization, suggesting that 0.1 ml of pooled sera could neutralize 120× mouse 
LD100 (100% lethal dose) of ETX. Following the second vaccination, 
rETXH106P/CTB-rETXY196E mixed with ISA201 or GR208 produced the highest 
neutralizing titer of 800. Rabbits from all vaccinated groups were completely 
protected from a 2× rabbit LD100 of ETX challenge. These results show that these 
novel recombinant proteins can induce a strong immune response and represent 
potential targets for the development of a commercial vaccine against the C. 
perfringens epsilon toxin.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.20-0385
PMCID: PMC8025428
PMID: 33551442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


820. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2003 Feb;43(1):35-42.

[The immuno-protect study of a hepatitis E virus ORF2 peptide expressed in E. 
coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Ge S(1), Zhang J, Huang G, Pang S, Zhou K, Xia N.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Cell Biology and Tumor 
Cell Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, China.

A hepatitis E virus (HEV) ORF2 peptide expressed in an unfused pattern in E. 
coli, NE2, can self-assembly into homodimers and oligomers, and the 
immuno-reactivity of the dimers or oligomers to HEV infected serum is much 
stronger than monomer, which suggested that some important conformational 
epitopes be better exposed in dimer or oligomer form. Three Rhesus monkeys were 
vaccinated with three doses (10 microg/dose) purified NE2 in Freud's adjuvant 
under a schedule of Od, 10d, and 30d. Specific antibodies can be detected on 
second week, and on sixth week while virus challenge were performed with 106 PCR 
titer of virus positive stool suspention, the antibody titer of one monkey was 
1: 100 000, the other two were both 1: 20 000. Three monkeys in control group 
presented typical acute hepatitis E manifestation: increased seral amino 
transferase (ALT), antibody conversion, and continuous virus excretion in stool. 
In contrast, the ALT of monkeys in vaccinated group continued to be normal, 
stool virus had not been detected in one monkey, and presented only a short 
duration in another two. One NE2-vaccinated monkey serum with antibody titer 1: 
20 000 was first incubated with HEV (10(3) PCR titer) for neutralization, then 
the mixture were used to challenge two monkeys, the results showed that two 
monkeys in control group continued to excrete virus for more than three weeks, 
sera antibody conversion, and one monkey presented obvious ALT increase. Both 
two monkeys challenged with antibody neutralized virus had not detected virus in 
stool, the antibodies decreased slowly, and ALT continued to be normal. These 
results suggested that the prokaryotic expression recombinant protein NE2 have 
good immunogenicity and immunoprotectivity, and should be a good candidate for 
an effective hepatitis E vaccine.

PMID: 16276869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Protein Pept Lett. 2013 Jan;20(1):54-60.

Effects of thioredoxin: SUMO and intein on soluble fusion expression of an 
antimicrobial peptide OG2 in Escherichia coli.

Xie YG(1), Luan C, Zhang HW, Han FF, Feng J, Choi YJ, Groleau D, Wang YZ.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science of Ministry of 
Agriculture, Institute of Feed Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 
PR China.

OG2 is a modified antimicrobial peptide of Palustrin-OG1 (OG1), which is derived 
from Odorrana grahami frog. OG2 has shown much higher selective antimicrobial 
activity and lower hemolytic activity than OG1, indicating OG2 may be a 
promising antimicrobial agent. In this study, we investigated three fusion 
partners, including thioredoxin, Mxe GyrA intein, and small ubiquitin-like 
modifier (SUMO), each fused with OG2, and examined their effects on the 
expression level and solubility of OG2 in Escherichia coli. The codon-optimized 
OG2 gene was cloned into pET32a (+) and pTWIN1 for fusion with thioredoxin and 
Mxe GyrA intein, respectively. In addition, the SUMO-OG2 gene was amplified by 
splice overlap extension PCR method and was cloned into pET30a (+). All 
recombinant plasmids were then transformed into E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS, and the 
expressed fusion proteins were verified. Upon isopropyl 
β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) induction, OG2 fused with thioredoxin 
(Trx-OG2) showed the highest yield as a soluble fusion protein (50 mg/L), 
followed by Mxe GyrA intein (44 mg/L) and SUMO (11 mg/L). The thioredoxin-fused 
protein (Trx-OG2) was then purified by nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid 
chromatography and desalted by Sephadex G25. The OG2 released by both tobacco 
etch virus protease and enterokinase from Trx-OG2 showed strong antimicrobial 
activity against Staphylococcus aureus ATCC25923.

PMID: 22670762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Bioinformatics. 2017 Aug 15;33(16):2487-2495. doi: 
10.1093/bioinformatics/btx207.

Machine learning in computational biology to accelerate high-throughput protein 
expression.

Sastry A(1), Monk J(1), Tegel H(2), Uhlen M(2)(3), Palsson BO(1)(3), Rockberg 
J(2), Brunk E(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(2)KTH - Royal Institute of Technology, Department of Proteomics and 
Nanobiotechnology, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical 
University of Denmark, 2800 Lyngby, Denmark.

MOTIVATION: The Human Protein Atlas (HPA) enables the simultaneous 
characterization of thousands of proteins across various tissues to pinpoint 
their spatial location in the human body. This has been achieved through 
transcriptomics and high-throughput immunohistochemistry-based approaches, where 
over 40 000 unique human protein fragments have been expressed in E. coli. These 
datasets enable quantitative tracking of entire cellular proteomes and present 
new avenues for understanding molecular-level properties influencing expression 
and solubility.
RESULTS: Combining computational biology and machine learning identifies protein 
properties that hinder the HPA high-throughput antibody production pipeline. We 
predict protein expression and solubility with accuracies of 70% and 80%, 
respectively, based on a subset of key properties (aromaticity, hydropathy and 
isoelectric point). We guide the selection of protein fragments based on these 
characteristics to optimize high-throughput experimentation.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: We present the machine learning workflow as a 
series of IPython notebooks hosted on GitHub 
(https://github.com/SBRG/Protein_ML). The workflow can be used as a template for 
analysis of further expression and solubility datasets.
CONTACT: ebrunk@ucsd.edu or johanr@biotech.kth.se.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author (2017). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btx207
PMCID: PMC5870730
PMID: 28398465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2002 Jul 26;295(4):952-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0006-291x(02)00783-0.

Heterologous expression and purification of SpaB involved in subtilin 
biosynthesis.

Xie L(1), Chatterjee C, Balsara R, Okeley NM, van der Donk WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600 
South Mathews Ave, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Lantibiotic peptides contain thioether bridges termed lanthionines that are 
putatively generated by dehydration of Ser and Thr residues followed by Michael 
addition of cysteine residues within the peptide. The LanB and LanC proteins 
have been proposed to catalyze the dehydration and formation of the thioether 
rings, respectively. We report here the first heterologous overexpression in 
Escherichia coli of SpaB, the putative dehydratase for subtilin. Sequence 
analysis of spaB revealed several nucleotide differences with current gene 
database entries. The solubility of SpaB was increased dramatically when 
co-expressed with GroEL/ES, and soluble His(6)-tagged SpaB was purified. The 
protein is at least a dimer, and interaction between SpaB and SpaC was observed. 
SpaS the putative substrate for SpaB was overexpressed in E. coli as an intein 
fusion protein, and after cleavage, the peptide was obtained in good yield.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-291x(02)00783-0
PMID: 12127987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2018 Aug;165(4):461-464. doi: 10.1007/s10517-018-4194-7. Epub 
2018 Aug 18.

Thermostable Recombinant Polypeptides as the Source of L-Amino Acids for Culture 
Media.

Grishin DV(1), Zhdanov DD(2), Gladilina YA(2), Podobed OV(2), Pokrovsky VS(2), 
Pokrovskaya MV(2), Aleksandrova SS(2), Sokolov NN(2).

Author information:
(1)V. N. Orekhovich Research Institute of Biomedical Chemistry, Moscow, Russia. 
molbiol_ibm@inbox.ru.
(2)V. N. Orekhovich Research Institute of Biomedical Chemistry, Moscow, Russia.

Mutant homologues of small chemotactic and DNA-binding proteins from 
thermophilic bacteria Thermotoga petrophila RKU-1 and Thermotoga naphthophila 
were obtained. These proteins can be expressed in the recombinant form in E. 
coli cells. A wide range of properties and parameters that are important for 
isolation of these proteins were revealed: stability in a wide temperature and 
pH range, high level of expression, solubility, and the possibility of using 
simple purification schemes with low number of successive steps. The positive 
effect of proteins on in vitro fibroblasts growth was demonstrated. The 
described properties of the target proteins indicate the possibility of their 
use in different biotechnology industries as an inexpensive source of L-amino 
acids.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-018-4194-7
PMID: 30121908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2007 Dec 21;364(3):639-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2007.10.060. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

Mutations that alter the equilibrium between open and closed conformations of 
Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein impede its ability to enhance the 
solubility of passenger proteins.

Nallamsetty S(1), Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, 
National Cancer Institute at Frederick, P.O. Box B, Frederick, MD 21702-1201, 
USA.

Certain highly soluble proteins, such as Escherichia coli maltose-binding 
protein (MBP), have the ability to enhance the solubility of their fusion 
partners, making them attractive vehicles for the production of recombinant 
proteins, yet the mechanism of solubility enhancement remains poorly understood. 
Here, we report that the solubility-enhancing properties of MBP are dramatically 
affected by amino acid substitutions that alter the equilibrium between its 
"open" and "closed" conformations. Our findings indicate that the 
solubility-enhancing activity of MBP is mediated by its open conformation and 
point to a likely role for the ligand-binding cleft in the mechanism of 
solubility enhancement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2007.10.060
PMCID: PMC2129132
PMID: 17964542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Infect Immun. 2000 Jun;68(6):3516-22. doi: 10.1128/IAI.68.6.3516-3522.2000.

Expression of Staphylococcus aureus clumping factor A in Lactococcus lactis 
subsp. cremoris using a new shuttle vector.

Que YA(1), Haefliger JA, Francioli P, Moreillon P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, 1011 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Staphylococcus aureus harbors redundant adhesins mediating tissue colonization 
and infection. To evaluate their intrinsic role outside of the staphylococcal 
background, a system was designed to express them in Lactococcus lactis subsp. 
cremoris 1363. This bacterium is devoid of virulence factors and has a known 
genetic background. A new Escherichia coli-L. lactis shuttle and expression 
vector was constructed for this purpose. First, the high-copy-number lactococcal 
plasmid pIL253 was equipped with the oriColE1 origin, generating pOri253 that 
could replicate in E. coli. Second, the lactococcal promoters P23 or P59 were 
inserted at one end of the pOri253 multicloning site. Gene expression was 
assessed by a luciferase reporter system. The plasmid carrying P23 (named 
pOri23) expressed luciferase constitutively at a level 10,000 times greater than 
did the P59-containing plasmid. Transcription was absent in E. coli. The 
staphylococcal clumping factor A (clfA) gene was cloned into pOri23 and used as 
a model system. Lactococci carrying pOri23-clfA produced an unaltered and 
functional 130-kDa ClfA protein attached to their cell walls. This was indicated 
both by the presence of the protein in Western blots of solubilized cell walls 
and by the ability of ClfA-positive lactococci to clump in the presence of 
plasma. ClfA-positive lactococci had clumping titers (titer of 4,112) similar to 
those of S. aureus Newman in soluble fibrinogen and bound equally well to 
solid-phase fibrinogen. These experiments provide a new way to study individual 
staphylococcal pathogenic factors and might complement both classical knockout 
mutagenesis and modern in vivo expression technology and signature tag 
mutagenesis.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.68.6.3516-3522.2000
PMCID: PMC97637
PMID: 10816506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 Jun 21;8(6):1337-1351. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00020. Epub 
2019 May 24.

Lessons from Two Design-Build-Test-Learn Cycles of Dodecanol Production in 
Escherichia coli Aided by Machine Learning.

Opgenorth P(1)(2), Costello Z(1)(2)(3), Okada T(4), Goyal G(1)(2)(3), Chen 
Y(1)(2)(3), Gin J(1)(2)(3), Benites V(1)(2)(3), de Raad M(5)(6), Northen 
TR(1)(5)(6), Deng K(7), Deutsch S(6), Baidoo EEK(1)(2)(3), Petzold CJ(1)(2)(3), 
Hillson NJ(1)(2)(3)(6), Garcia Martin H(1)(2)(3)(8), Beller HR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI) , Emeryville , California 94608 , United 
States.
(2)Biological Systems & Engineering Division , Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory , Berkeley , California 94720 , United States.
(3)DOE Agile BioFoundry , Emeryville , California 94608 , United States.
(4)Research Institute for Bioscience Product & Fine Chemicals , Ajinomoto Co., 
Inc. , Kawasaki 210-8680 , Japan.
(5)Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division , Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory , Berkeley , California 94720 , United States.
(6)DOE Joint Genome Institute , Walnut Creek , California 94598 , United States.
(7)Sandia National Laboratories , Livermore , California 94550 , United States.
(8)BCAM, Basque Center for Applied Mathematics , 48009 Bilbao , Spain.

The Design-Build-Test-Learn (DBTL) cycle, facilitated by exponentially improving 
capabilities in synthetic biology, is an increasingly adopted metabolic 
engineering framework that represents a more systematic and efficient approach 
to strain development than historical efforts in biofuels and biobased products. 
Here, we report on implementation of two DBTL cycles to optimize 1-dodecanol 
production from glucose using 60 engineered Escherichia coli MG1655 strains. The 
first DBTL cycle employed a simple strategy to learn efficiently from a 
relatively small number of strains (36), wherein only the choice of 
ribosome-binding sites and an acyl-ACP/acyl-CoA reductase were modulated in a 
single pathway operon including genes encoding a thioesterase (UcFatB1), an 
acyl-ACP/acyl-CoA reductase (Maqu_2507, Maqu_2220, or Acr1), and an acyl-CoA 
synthetase (FadD). Measured variables included concentrations of dodecanol and 
all proteins in the engineered pathway. We used the data produced in the first 
DBTL cycle to train several machine-learning algorithms and to suggest protein 
profiles for the second DBTL cycle that would increase production. These 
strategies resulted in a 21% increase in dodecanol titer in Cycle 2 (up to 0.83 
g/L, which is more than 6-fold greater than previously reported batch values for 
minimal medium). Beyond specific lessons learned about optimizing dodecanol 
titer in E. coli, this study had findings of broader relevance across synthetic 
biology applications, such as the importance of sequencing checks on plasmids in 
production strains as well as in cloning strains, and the critical need for more 
accurate protein expression predictive tools.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00020
PMID: 31072100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Comp Biochem Physiol B Biochem Mol Biol. 2002 Jan;131(1):37-46. doi: 
10.1016/s1096-4959(01)00478-x.

Production of a polyclonal antibody against recombinant goldfish prolactin and 
demonstration of its usefulness in a non-competitive antigen-capture ELISA.

Cheung HY(1), Chan KM, Ng TB, Cheng CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, 
N.T., Hong Kong, PR China.

The cDNA encoding the goldfish (Carassius auratus) prolactin was expressed in 
Escherichia coli using the pRSETA expression vector. The recombinant goldfish 
prolactin (gfPRL) produced was a fusion protein containing a hexahistidyl 
sequence, which facilitated its purification on a Ni(2+) column. The fusion 
protein was overexpressed in the bacteria as inclusion bodies and was 
successfully purified under denaturing conditions by one-step affinity 
chromatography. Repeated immunization of rabbits against the purified 
recombinant gfPRL allowed the production of a high-titer polyclonal antiserum. 
The IgG fraction of the antiserum was isolated on an immobilized Protein 
A-agarose column. The antibody recognized recombinant gfPRL, but not recombinant 
goldfish growth hormone (gfGH) or goldfish somatolactin (gfSL) on Western 
analyses. The purified antibody was able to recognize gfPRL, but not gfGH or 
gfSL, in a non-competitive antigen-capture ELISA. The assay was applied in 
monitoring the purification of native PRL from goldfish pituitaries.

DOI: 10.1016/s1096-4959(01)00478-x
PMID: 11742756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. FEBS Lett. 2004 Feb 13;559(1-3):66-70. doi: 10.1016/S0014-5793(04)00025-0.

Cell-free production of active E. coli thioredoxin reductase and glutathione 
reductase.

Knapp KG(1), Swartz JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 
94305-5025, USA.

Escherichia coli thioredoxin reductase (TR) and glutathione reductase (GR) are 
dimeric proteins that require a flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) cofactor for 
activity. A cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) reaction supplemented with FAD 
was used to produce TR at 760 microg/ml with 89% of the protein being soluble. 
GR accumulated to 521 microg/ml in a cell-free reaction with 71% solubility. The 
TR produced was fully active with a specific activity of 1390 min(-1). The GR 
had a specific activity of 139 U/mg, which is significantly more active than 
reported for GR purified from cells. The specific activity for both TR and GR 
decreased without FAD supplementation. This research demonstrates that CFPS can 
be used to produce enzymes that are multimeric and require a cofactor.

DOI: 10.1016/S0014-5793(04)00025-0
PMID: 14960309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Jun;27(6):637-40.

[Cloning, prokaryotic expression of novel swine gene P58IPK and its polyclonal 
antibody preparation].

[Article in Chinese]

Wen JG(1), Song H, Sun Y, Gao Y, Xu ZK, Bo LF, Zhang DL.

Author information:
(1)Investigation Group of Molecular Virology, Immunology, Oncology & Systems 
Biology, Center for Bioinformatics, Northwest A & F University, Yangling 712100, 
China.

AIM: To clone a novel swine gene P58(IPK)[58-kDa(inhibitor of protein kinase) 
protein] and prepare its polyclonal antibody for further research of influenza 
and host interaction.
METHODS: The swine P58(IPK); gene was first identified in silico through 
homology searching in the swine EST database. Then this gene was amplified by 
reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The cDNA of the gene 
contained the complete open reading frame(ORF) of 1 518 bp, and encoded 505 
amino acid residues (Accession No.HQ287801). The gene was first analyzed using 
bioinformatics methods. Then P58(IPK) was cloned into a prokaryotic expression 
vector pET-32a to construct a recombinant plasmid named as pET-P58(IPK). The 
fusion protein his-P58(IPK) was expressed in E.coli BL21 and purified using a 
his-tag protein purification column. Subsequently rabbits were immunized with 
the purified protein.
RESULTS: Specific polyclonal antibody against the fusion protein his-P58(IPK) 
was obtained. The activity of the antibody was determined through 
double-immunodiffusion test. The titer of the antibody was 1:20 000 as shown by 
ELISA. specifically recognized the protein P58(IPK) by Western blot and 
immunofluorescence assay.
CONCLUSION: The novel swine gene P58(IPK) has been successfully cloned and its 
polyclonal antibody has been prepared.

PMID: 21651864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Metab Eng. 2015 May;29:113-123. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2015.03.005. Epub 2015 Mar 
12.

Biosynthesis of odd-chain fatty alcohols in Escherichia coli.

Cao YX(1), Xiao WH(2), Liu D(2), Zhang JL(2), Ding MZ(2), Yuan YJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin 300072, PR China; SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of 
Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR 
China. Electronic address: caoyingxiu@163.com.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin 300072, PR China; SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of 
Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
University, Tianjin 300072, PR China; SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative 
Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin), School of 
Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, PR 
China. Electronic address: yjyuan@tju.edu.cn.

Engineered microbes offer the opportunity to design and implement artificial 
molecular pathways for renewable production of tailored chemical commodities. 
Targeted biosynthesis of odd-chain fatty alcohols is very challenging in 
microbe, due to the specificity of fatty acids synthase for two-carbon unit 
elongation. Here, we developed a novel strategy to directly tailor carbon number 
in fatty aldehydes formation step by incorporating α-dioxygenase (αDOX) from 
Oryza sativa (rice) into Escherichia coli αDOX oxidizes Cn fatty acids 
(even-chain) to form Cn-1 fatty aldehydes (odd-chain). Through combining αDOX 
with fatty acyl-acyl carrier protein (-ACP) thioesterase (TE) and aldehyde 
reductase (AHR), the medium odd-chain fatty alcohols profile (C11, C13, C15) was 
firstly established in E. coli. Also, medium even-chain alkanes (C12, C14) were 
obtained by substitution of AHR to aldehyde decarbonylase (AD). The titer of 
odd-chain fatty alcohols was improved from 7.4mg/L to 101.5mg/L in tube 
cultivation by means of fine-tuning endogenous fatty acyl-ACP TE (TesA'), αDOX, 
AHRs and the genes involved in fatty acids metabolism pathway. Through high cell 
density fed-batch fermentation, a titer of 1.95g/L odd-chain fatty alcohols was 
achieved, which was the highest reported titer in E. coli. Our system has 
greatly expanded the current microbial fatty alcohols profile that provides a 
new brand solution for producing complex and desired molecules in microbes.

Copyright © 2015 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2015.03.005
PMID: 25773521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Sheng Wu Hua Xue Yu Sheng Wu Wu Li Xue Bao (Shanghai). 2001;33(6):707-712.

Cloning and Expression of Chinese Duck Interferon-gamma Gene.

Long JE(1), Huang LN, Wang WY, Cheng MJ, Wen YM, Yuan ZH, Qu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Virology, Medical Center of Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China. d-qu@usa.net

The efficacy of cytokine therapy has been demonstrated in several viral 
diseases. Interferon-gamma is a cytokine that has potent antiviral property and 
immunomodulatory activity. To investigate the role of IFN-gamma in viral 
clearance during natural infection and to define the antiviral mechanism, 
DHBV-infected ducks was used as an animal model. To clone, express, and develop 
the method of quantifying DuIFN-gamma gene transcription and expression, DuIFN 
-gamma cDNA was amplified by RT-PCR from PHA stimulated duck PBMC. Recombinant 
plasmid expressing DuIFN-gamma was used to transfect COS-7, and the cell culture 
supernatant was analyzed by CPE inhibitory assay and MTT methods to determine 
the antiviral titer of IFN-gamma. The GST-DuIFN-gamma fusion protein was 
expressed in E.coli and purified using the GST sepharose 4B. Results indicated 
that the supernatant collected from COS-7 cells transfected with DuIFN-gamma 
cDNA was able to prevent duck fibroblasts from VSV induced CPE in a dose 
dependent manner. An anti-DuIFN-gamma antibody neutralized this antiviral 
activity.

PMID: 12035067


833. Guang Pu Xue Yu Guang Pu Fen Xi. 2009 Dec;29(12):3267-70.

[Study on the effect of C-terminal acidic protein on the prokaryotic expression 
of alpha-thionin by FTIR microspectroscopy].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Y(1), Feng J, Tao DL, Weng SF, Ren ZL.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu 610054, China. liuyan841107@yahoo.com.cn

Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) microspectroscopy was used to investigate the 
effects of C-terminal acidic protein on the secondary structure of wheat 
alpha-thionin in the absence of signal peptide during the prokaryotic expression 
process. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that the presence of acidic protein gave 
rise to the formation of inclusion body, however, the absence of acidic protein 
greatly enhanced the solubility of the heterogenous protein expressed in E. coli 
BL21(DE3) with the induction of 1 mmol x L(-1) IPTG at 37 degrees C. Difference 
spectra in amide I region were obtained by subtraction between the spectra of 
intact cells containing S and Sc, which corresponds to the absence and presence 
of C-terminal acidic proteins, respectively. The second derivative of the 
difference spectra measured 2 h after induction showed one principal component 
at approximately 1 630 cm(-1), while no significant peak appeared at the same 
peak position when the spectra before induction were compared. Combined with 
SDS-PAGE of recombinant protein, the authors presumed that the peak absorption 
at approximately 1 630 cm(-1) is most likey to be assigned to protein aggregate 
within inclusion body. Gaussian curve-fitting was done on the Fourier 
self-deconvolution spectra within amide I region of intact cells containing S 
and Sc. The experimental data revealed that the relative content of aggregate 
absorption at (1 629 +/- 1) cm(-1) gradually increased with induction time, 
which is consistent with the results of SDS-PAGE. Simutaneously, the formation 
of aggregate gave rise to the increase of alpha-helix, as well as the decrease 
of beta-turn and random coil in the case of Sc. It was not the case for S, 
however, where random coil experienced the increase in the relative average 
fractions, while beta-turn and beta-sheet at (1 629 +/- 1) cm(-1) behaved in 
different ways. The above mentioned phenomenon indicated that beta-sheet and 
random coil are most likely to transform into aggregate and alpha-helix with the 
introduction of C-terminal acidic protein.

PMID: 20210147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2012 Mar 4;52(3):360-6.

[Recombinant expression, purification and adhesion function identify of Bacillus 
anthracis BslA(260 -652) protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma K(1), Wang Y, Tao H, Dong J, Cao C, Zhang B, Liu C.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei 230039, China. 
makunwx@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To obtain the recombinant BslA(260-652) protein of Bacillus anthracis 
and prepare its antibody for the adhesion activity studies.
METHODS: The fragment coding BslA(260-652) was cloned into pET28a(+) plasmid and 
induced to express recombinant protein in E. coli Rosetta (DE3) by Isopropyl 
beta-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). The expressed recombinant soluble protein 
was purified by a column packed with Ni Resin. Purified protein was used as the 
antigen to immunize BABL/c mice for three times to raise polyclonal antibody. 
The adhesion activity of BlsA(260-652) was detected by immunofluorescence 
experiments and bacterial adherence assays.
RESULTS: The purity of the purified soluble BslA(260-652) was about 87.4%. ELISA 
assay titer of antiserum from vaccinated mice reached 1:20000. Western blot 
showed the antiserum could specifically recognize endogenous BslA protein. The 
purified BslA(260-652) displayed a typical adhesion-like function. Either the 
anti-BslA serum or the BslA(260-652) protein could inhibit A16R's Hela 
adherence.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant BslA(260-652) protein was successfully obtained, 
which would lay the foundation for further research of the anthrax vaccine and 
the role of this S-layer protein in the pathogenesis of anthrax.

PMID: 22712407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2008 Mar;39(2):294-7.

[Construction of recombinant adenovirus vector carrying the mouse caveolin-1 in 
gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang L(1), He YH, Shen YD, Liu L, Tang W, Zheng XH, Tian WD.

Author information:
(1)State key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, West China Stomatological Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct recombinant adenovirus carrying the mouse dentin 
caveolin-1 gene using the recombinant adenoviral vector system AdEasy.
METHODS: The cDNA fragment of caveolin-1 was derived from pTRE2-caveolin-1 by 
restriction enzyme digestion and subcloned into shuttle plasmid pAdtrack-CMV. 
The resulting plasmid pAdtrack-CMV-caveolin-1, after linearized by digesting 
with restriction endonuclease Pme I, was transformed into E. coli 1 BJ5183 which 
had been transformed by adenoviral backbone plasmid pAdEasy-1. The recombinant 
plasmid pAd-caveolin-1 was screened by kanamycin LB plate and then identified by 
restriction enzyme digestion. The linearized adenovirus plasmid pAd-caveolin-1 
was packaged in 293 cells, then the recombinant adenovirus Ad-caveolin-1 was 
harvested. The expression of green fluorescence protein was observed under 
fluorescent microscope. With further amplification and purification, the titer 
of recombinant adenovirus was determined.
RESULTS: The recombinant adenovirus was identified by restriction enzyme 
digestion analysis and gene sequencing. Cytopathic effect and the expression of 
GFP were observed in the infected 293 cells. The sequence of caveolin-1 gene 
insert was the same as that published in the GenBank. The titer of the 
recombinant adenovirus was 2 x 10(9) pfu/mL.
CONCLUSION: The mouse caveolin-1 recombinant adenovirus was constructed 
successfully by using AdEasy adenovirus system. Cell transfection and expression 
of exogenous gene can be detected directly by observing the expression of GFP. 
These results provide the basis for the further study on the role of caveolin-1 
gene in other scopes.

PMID: 18630707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2019 Aug 20;7:200. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00200. 
eCollection 2019.

Single-Input Regulatory Cascade for in vivo Removal of the Solubility Tag in 
Fusion Recombinant Proteins Produced by Escherichia coli.

Silva FSR(1), Santos SPO(1), Meyer R(1), Alcantara-Neves NM(1), Pinheiro CS(1), 
Pacheco LGC(1).

Author information:
(1)Post-graduate Program in Biotechnology, Institute of Health Sciences, Federal 
University of Bahia, Salvador, Brazil.

Solubility tags are commonly fused to target recombinant proteins to enhance 
their solubility and stability. In general, these protein tags must be removed 
to avoid misfolding of the partner protein and to allow for downstream 
applications. Nevertheless, in vitro tag removal increases process complexity 
and costs. Herein, we describe a synthetic biology-based strategy to permit in 
vivo removal of a solubility tag (EDA, KDPG aldolase), through co-expression of 
the fusion recombinant protein (EDA-EGFP) and the tag-cleaving protease (TEVp), 
in a controlled manner. Basically, the system uses three repressor proteins 
(LacI, cI434, and TetR) to regulate the expressions of EDA-EGFP and TEVp, in a 
regulatory cascade that culminates with the release of free soluble target 
protein (EGFP), following a single chemical induction by IPTG. The system worked 
consistently when all biological parts were cloned in a single plasmid, 
pSolubility(SOL)A (7.08 Kb, AmpR), and transformed in Escherichia coli Rosetta 
(DE3) or BL21(DE3) strains. Total soluble recombinant protein yield (EDA-EGFP + 
free EGFP) was ca. 272.0 ± 60.1 μg/mL of culture, following IMAC purification; 
free EGFP composed great part (average = 46.5%; maximum = 67.3%) of the total 
purified protein fraction and was easily separated from remaining fusion 
EDA-EGFP (53 KDa) through filtration using a 50 KDa cut-off centrifugal filter.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00200
PMCID: PMC6710347
PMID: 31482090


837. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Jun;182:105844. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105844. Epub 
2021 Feb 13.

Functional expression and purification of recombinant full-length human ATG7 
protein with HIV-1 Tat peptide in Escherichia coli.

Dong G(1), Zhao X(1), Guo J(1), Ma L(1), Zhou H(1), Liu Q(1), Zhao X(1), Wang 
C(2), Wu K(3).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Radiation Biology (No. BZ0325) and Department of 
Experimental Pathology, Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing, 
100850, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Radiation Biology (No. BZ0325) and Department of 
Experimental Pathology, Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing, 
100850, China. Electronic address: wangcz2002@aliyun.com.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Radiation Biology (No. BZ0325) and Department of 
Experimental Pathology, Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing, 
100850, China. Electronic address: wuk315@163.com.

The human autophagy-related protein ATG7 (hATG7), an E1-like ubiquitin enzyme, 
activates two ubiquitin-like proteins, LC3 (Atg8) and Atg12, and promotes 
autophagosome formation. While hATG7 plays an essential role for the autophagy 
conjugation system, the production of full-length functional hATG7 in bacterial 
systems remains challenging. Previous studies have demonstrated that the HIV-1 
virus-encoded Tat peptide ('GRKKRRQRRR') can increase the yield and solubility 
of heterologous proteins. Here, functional full-length hATG7 was expressed using 
the pET28b-Tat expression vector in the Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain. 
Recombinant hATG7 protein aggregated as inclusion bodies while expressed with 
widely used prokaryotic expression plasmids. In contrast, the solubility of 
Tat-tagged hATG7 increased significantly with prolonged time compared to 
Tat-free hATG7. The recombinant proteins were purified to >90% homogeneity under 
native conditions with a single step of affinity chromatography purification. 
The results of in vitro pull-down and LC3B-I lipidation assays showed that 
Tat-tagged hATG7 directly interacted with LC3B-I and promoted LC3B-I lipidation, 
suggesting that Tat-tagged hATG7 has significant catalytic activity. Overall, 
this study provides a novel method for improving the functional expression of 
full-length hATG7 in bacterial systems by fusion with the Tat peptide, a process 
which may be applied in future studies of hATG7 structure and function.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105844
PMID: 33592251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Metab Eng. 2017 Nov;44:325-336. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2017.11.004. Epub 2017 Nov 
10.

Autonomous control of metabolic state by a quorum sensing (QS)-mediated 
regulator for bisabolene production in engineered E. coli.

Kim EM(1), Woo HM(1), Tian T(1), Yilmaz S(2), Javidpour P(1), Keasling JD(3), 
Lee TS(4).

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute, 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA 94608, USA; 
Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(2)Joint BioEnergy Institute, 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA 94608, USA; 
Department of Bioengineering and Biotechnology, Sandia National Laboratory, 
Livermore, CA, USA.
(3)Joint BioEnergy Institute, 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA 94608, USA; 
Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA; Department of Bioengineering, University of 
California, Berkeley, CA, USA; Department of Chemical & Biomolecular 
Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA; Novo Nordisk 
Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical University of Denmark, Kogle 
Alle, DK2970 Hørsholm, Denmark.
(4)Joint BioEnergy Institute, 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA 94608, USA; 
Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA. Electronic address: tslee@lbl.gov.

Inducible gene expression systems are widely used in microbial host strains for 
protein and commodity chemical production because of their extensive 
characterization and ease of use. However, some of these systems have 
disadvantages such as leaky expression, lack of dynamic control, and the 
prohibitively high costs of inducers associated with large-scale production. 
Quorum sensing (QS) systems in bacteria control gene expression in response to 
population density, and the LuxI/R system from Vibrio fischeri is a well-studied 
example. A QS system could be ideal for biofuel production strains as it is 
self-regulated and does not require the addition of inducer compounds, which 
reduce operational costs for inducer. In this study, a QS system was developed 
for inducer-free production of the biofuel compound bisabolene from engineered 
E. coli. Seven variants of the Sensor plasmid, which carry the luxI-luxR genes, 
and four variants of the Response plasmid, which carry bisabolene producing 
pathway genes under the control of the PluxI promoter, were designed for 
optimization of bisabolene production. Furthermore, a chromosome-integrated QS 
strain was engineered with the best combination of Sensor and Response plasmid 
and produced bisabolene at a titer of 1.1g/L without addition of external 
inducers. This is a 44% improvement from our previous inducible system. The QS 
strain also displayed higher homogeneity in gene expression and isoprenoid 
production compared to an inducible-system strain.

Copyright © 2017 International Metabolic Engineering Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2017.11.004
PMID: 29129823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Metab Eng. 2009 Jul-Sep;11(4-5):213-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2009.02.002. Epub 
2009 Mar 10.

Microbial conversion of glucose to a novel chemical building block, 
2-pyrone-4,6-dicarboxylic acid.

Nakajima M(1), Nishino Y, Tamura M, Mase K, Masai E, Otsuka Y, Nakamura M, Sato 
K, Fukuda M, Shigehara K, Ohara S, Katayama Y, Kajita S.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Bio-Applications and Systems Engineering, Tokyo University 
of Agriculture and Technology, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.

2-Pyrone-4,6-dicarboxylic acid (PDC) is a catabolic intermediate in Sphingobium 
sp. SYK-6 (previously characterized as Sphingomonas paucimobilis SYK-6), which 
is a degrader of lignin-derived aromatic compounds. Recently, PDC has been also 
characterized as a novel starting material for several potentially useful 
synthetic polymers. In a previous study, we constructed a biosynthetic system in 
which PDC was generated efficiently from a chemically synthesized compound, 
protocatechuate. In order to develop an alternative system for production of 
PDC, we tried to generate it from glucose, which is a low-cost sugar that can be 
obtained from abundant cellulosic wastes and biomass crops. We designed a 
metabolic bypass to PDC from the shikimate pathway in recombinant Escherichia 
coli cells. PDC accumulated in the medium of recombinant E. coli cells that had 
been transformed with genes isolated from Emericella niger, E. coli, Pseudomonas 
putida, and Sphingobium sp. SYK-6. The yield of PDC depended on the combination 
of genes that we introduced into the cells and on the specific of host strain. 
Under optimal conditions, the yield and titer of PDC were, respectively, 17.3% 
and 0.35 mg/l when the concentration of glucose was 2 g/l and the culture volume 
was 50 ml. Our results open up the possibility of novel utilization of biomass 
as the source of a useful chemical building block.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2009.02.002
PMID: 19281857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2019;49(2):192-201. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2019.1566150. 
Epub 2019 Feb 8.

Soluble expression, rapid purification, biological identification of chicken 
interferon-alpha using a thioredoxin fusion system in E. coli and its antiviral 
effects to H9N2 avian influenza virus.

Zhao J(1)(2)(3)(4), Yu HY(1), Zhao Y(2), Li FH(5), Zhou W(2), Xia BB(4), He 
ZY(4), Chen J(1)(6), Jiang GT(5), Wang ML(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Microbiology , Anhui Medical University , Hefei , Anhui , 
P.R. China.
(2)b Anhui JiuChuan Biotech Co., Ltd , Wuhu , Anhui , P.R. China.
(3)c Wuhu Overseas Students Pioneer Park , Wuhu , Anhui , P.R. China.
(4)d Wuhu Interferon Bio-products Industry Research Institute Co., Ltd , Wuhu , 
Anhui , P.R. China.
(5)e Dalian SanYi animal medicine Co., Ltd , Dalian , Liaoning , P.R. China.
(6)f Department of Pathology and Cell Biology , Columbia University , New York , 
USA.

In this paper, we report a soluble expression based on Escherichia coli and 
two-step purification of a novel thioredoxin-tagged chicken interferon-α fusion 
protein (Trx-rChIFN-α) by using pET32a(+) expression system. The mature ChIFN-α 
gene was amplified by Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) 
and subcloned into pET-32a (+) vector prior to transformation into Rosetta (DE3) 
competent cells. After IPTG induction, the recombinant fusion protein was 
expressed efficiently in the soluble fraction. The protein purification was 
performed by nickel affinity chromatography and DEAE anion exchange 
chromatography. The purified product has a purity of 95% with a yield of 
47.3 mg/L of culture. The specific activity of the fusion protein reaches to 
2.0 × 107 IU/mg as determined in the CEF/VSV titration system. After excision of 
the Trx tag by enterokinase, the remaining solo protein was confirmed as 
rChIFN-α protein by SDS-PAGE, N-terminal sequencing and mass spectrometry. The 
effects of this Trx-rChIFN-α fusion protein against H9N2 influenza virus 
infection were also evaluated in ovo. The results showed that the Trx-rChIFN-α 
protein could significantly reduce the hemagglutination titer of H9N2 virus, and 
the H9N2 viruses HA gene copy numbers. These findings will enable us to produce 
large amount and bio-active rChIFN-α protein for future applications.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2019.1566150
PMID: 30734625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. J Immunol Methods. 2014 Sep;411:37-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2014.06.004. Epub 2014 
Jun 16.

Bioconjugates of rhizavidin with single domain antibodies as bifunctional 
immunoreagents.

Liu JL(1), Zabetakis D(1), Walper SA(1), Goldman ER(1), Anderson GP(2).

Author information:
(1)Naval Research Laboratory, Center for Bio/Molecular Science and Engineering, 
4555 Overlook Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20375, USA.
(2)Naval Research Laboratory, Center for Bio/Molecular Science and Engineering, 
4555 Overlook Ave. SW, Washington, DC 20375, USA. Electronic address: 
george.anderson@nrl.navy.mil.

Use of the avidin-biotin binding interaction for immunoassay applications is 
widespread. One advantageous immunoreagent is the recombinant fusion of an 
antibody fragment with a biotin binding protein. These genetic fusions alleviate 
the need to prepare chemical conjugates to achieve molecules that combine target 
recognition with signal transduction or to facilitate the directional 
immobilization of the binding element. In order for such a fusion protein to be 
useful, however, it must be able to be produced in good yield. Unfortunately, 
recombinant production of avidin or streptavidin as well as bioconjugates 
derived thereof has been problematic. An alternative biotin binding molecule 
called rhizavidin has been described, which forms a homodimer instead of a 
tetramer, but it has not been evaluated in genetic fusions with antibody binding 
domains. Single domain antibodies, the variable domain derived from camelid 
heavy chain only antibodies, offer binding domains with high affinity, and 
solubility that are well expressed in Escherichia coli. In this work, we 
prepared an anti-ricin single domain antibody - rhizavidin bioconjugate and 
evaluated it on the basis of its production in E. coli and on its activity in 
comparison to a streptavidin core bioconjugate and unfused single domain 
antibody. The single domain antibody-rhizavidin bioconjugate produced much 
better than its streptavidin core counterparts, yielding an average of 14 mg/L, 
a 20-fold improvement. When used in assays the rhizavidin conjugate provided the 
same desirable characteristics as the streptavidin core fusion as both capture 
and detection reagents. Since rhizavidin and single domain antibodies both 
display impressive thermal stabilities their fusion provides a route to achieve 
robust bifunctional immunoreagents.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2014.06.004
PMID: 24946086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Biotechnol Prog. 2008 Nov-Dec;24(6):1272-7. doi: 10.1002/btpr.65.

Production of fusion mussel adhesive fp-353 in Escherichia coli.

Gim Y(1), Hwang DS, Lim S, Song YH, Cha HJ.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Chemical Engineering, National Research Laboratory of Molecular 
Biotechnology, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang, Korea.

Mussel adhesive proteins (MAPs) have a potential as environmentally friendly 
adhesives for use under aqueous conditions. MAPs maybe of particular value in 
medical applications. We previously reported the functional expression of 
recombinant foot protein type 5 (fp-5) and foot protein type 3A (fp-3A), both of 
which have significant adhesion abilities, in Escherichia coli. However, these 
proteins were produced at low levels because of post-induction cell growth 
inhibition, and the proteins showed poor post-purification solubility. Here, we 
design and produce a new type of recombinant MAP, fp-353, that is a fusion 
protein with fp-3A at each terminus of fp-5. Because fp-353 formed inclusion 
bodies, host cell growth inhibition did not occur. In addition, the solubility 
of MAP fp-353 after purification was significantly enhanced, permitting the 
preparation of a viscous concentrated glue solution for large-scale adhesion 
strength measurements. Together with large-scale cowhide adhesion measurements 
and cell-adhesion analyses, we successfully demonstrated that fusion mussel 
protein fp-353 has potential as a practical alternative bioadhesive.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.65
PMID: 19194941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Apr;70(2):143-50. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.10.012. Epub 
2009 Oct 31.

Production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli using an N-terminal tag 
derived from sortase.

Caswell J(1), Snoddy P, McMeel D, Buick RJ, Scott CJ.

Author information:
(1)Fusion Antibodies Ltd., Springbank Industrial Estate, Belfast BT17 0QL, UK.

The use of Escherichia coli protein expression systems has many benefits, 
including the ease of propagation, amounts of protein that can be generated and 
cost. However, this host has some drawbacks due to difficulties in the 
production of soluble foreign proteins with their alternate codon usage bias, 
reductive cytoplasmic environment and lack of complex post-translational 
modifications. We have designed a novel fusion protein tag derived from the 
sequence of sortase (SrtA) which we have named Solubility 'eNhancing'Ubiquitous 
Tag (SNUT). Here we demonstrate its application and effectiveness as an 
N-terminal fusion tag for the expression and purification of proteins that could 
not be effectively produced with other tags. We show this tag can be utilized 
for the purification of proteins through both native and refolding immobilized 
metal ion chromatography and in combination with an anti-SNUT monoclonal 
antibody, can also be used as a detection tag. This tag may prove useful in 
circumventing expression and purification issues with the production of proteins 
in bacterial expression hosts.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.10.012
PMID: 19883766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2010 Nov;13(11):1004-8. doi: 
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2010.11.02.

[Prokaryotic expression and purification of human TLE1 N-terminal Q domain 
fragment and production of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang S(1), Xu Z, Tang H, Wei L, Zhao X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai 200003, China.

BACKGROUND: TLE1 is an important protein in regulating Wnt, Notch and EGFR 
signaling pathways. The TLE1 N-terminal Q domain regulates the pathways by 
mediating its oligomerization and interaction with LEF1. The aim of this study 
is to construct the human TLE1 N-terminal Q domain fragment in prokaryotic 
expression system, express and purify protein TLE1 N-terminal Q domain and 
prepare its polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The sequence of TLE1 N-terminal Q domain obtained by PCR from human 
lung adenocarcinoma cDNA, was cloned into the prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-4T-1 containing Glutathione S-transferase (GST). Vector pGEX-4T1-TLE1-Q was 
transformed into E.coli BL21 condon plus. The GST-TLE1-Q(1-136) fusion protein 
was induced by IPTG, digested by Thrombin, purified with glutathione-sepharose 
beads and FPLC, identified by SDS-PAGE. Then rabbits were immunized with the 
purified protein TLE1-Q(1-136) for obtaining the antiserum. The titers and 
specificity of antibodies were measured by ELISA and Western blot.
RESULTS: The PCR identification and the sequencing of recombinant plasmid 
demonstrated that vector pGEX-4T1-TLE1-Q was successfully constructed. The 
SDS-PAGE shows target protein (14,000 Da) is the interest protein TLE1-Q(1-136). 
The TLE1 N-terminal Q domain fragment TLE1-Q(1-136) and its polyclonal antibody 
have been acquired, with an antibody titer of 1:20,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Expression vector pGEX-4T1-TLE1-Q is correctly constructed. The 
TLE1 N-terminal Q domain fragment TLE1-Q(1-136) and its polyclonal antibody have 
been acquired. These work established the foundation for further biological 
study between TLE1 and lung cancers.

背景与目的: TLE1是参与Wnt、Notch以及EGFR信号通路调控的一种重要蛋白。TLE1 
N端Q结构域片段通过介导自身寡聚化及与LEF1结合发挥调控作用。本实验旨在构建人TLE1 N端Q区基因在大肠杆菌的融合表达载体，制备并纯化人TLE1 
N端Q结构域蛋白片段，制备TLE1 Q结构域多克隆抗体。
方法: 以人肺腺癌cDNA库为模板聚合酶链反应（polymerase chain reaction, 
PCR）特异性扩增TLE1-Q(1-136)基因序列，与pGEX-4T-1质粒连接后转化感受态大肠杆菌E.coli。以异丙基-β-D-硫代半乳糖苷（isopropyl-β-D 
thiogalactoside, 
IPTG）诱导表达产生融合蛋白GSTTLE1-Q(1-136)。经亲和层析，Thrombin酶切，FPLC纯化，SDS-PAGE鉴定目的蛋白TLE1-Q(1-136)。免疫家兔，制备多克隆抗体。
结果: 测序证实重组表达质粒中的人TLE1 
N端Q结构域基因序列正确，成功构建表达型重组质粒pGEX-4T1-TLE1-Q。重组质粒转化大肠杆菌C+后，经诱导，重组蛋白GST-TLE1-Q(1-136)得到表达。SDS-PAGE鉴定示纯化蛋白为目的蛋白人TLE1 
N端Q结构域片段TLE1-Q(1-136)。免疫家兔后收获抗血清，ELISA显示抗体效价为1:20 
000，具有高度特异性。免疫印迹结果显示，制备的多抗可与TLE1-Q(1-136)蛋白特异性结合。
结论: 成功构建了人TLE1 N端Q结构域重组融合蛋白表达质粒pGEX-4T1-TLE1-Q，表达纯化了稳定可溶TLE1 
N端Q结构域蛋白TLE1-Q(1-136)，制备了人TLE1 N端Q结构域蛋白片段多克隆抗体，为进一步研究TLE1在肺癌生成中的作用奠定了基础。

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2010.11.02
PMCID: PMC6000491
PMID: 21081038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;31(4):452-5.

[Recombinant adenovirus of microRNA-193b inhibits proliferation of K562 cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Shu Y(1), Qi J(1), Wang C(1), Yu S(1), Tao K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Molecular Medicine and Cancer Research Center, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant adenovirus vector containing human 
pre-miR-193b and investigate its effect on the proliferation of chronic 
myelocytic leukemia K562 cells.
METHODS: The cDNA of pre-miR-193b was obtained by chemical synthesis and 
inserted into the adenoviral shuttle vector pAdTrack-CMV. The recombinant 
shuttle plasmid was linearized by Pme I and transformed into AdEasier cells for 
homologous recombination in E.coli BJ5183 with the adenoviral backbone plasmid 
pAdEasy-1. The recombinant adenoviral plasmid was linearized by Pac I and then 
used for transfecting HEK293 cells. After package and amplification in HEK293 
cells, the virus titer was determined by serial dilution assay. The expression 
level of miR-193b in K562 cells was detected by real-time quantitative PCR. The 
cell proliferation was observed by MTT assay.
RESULTS: The recombinant plasmid named pAd-miR-193b was confirmed by restriction 
enzyme analysis and sequencing. The recombinant adenovirus could infect K562 
cells efficiently. Compared with control group, real-time quantitative PCR 
revealed that the expression of miR-193b was significantly up-regulated in K562 
cells infected with pAd-pre-miR-193b, and the cell proliferation was suppressed 
significantly in K562 cells with up-regulated miR-193b expression.
CONCLUSION: The over-expression of miR-193b may suppress the proliferation of 
K562 cells.

PMID: 25854561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Bacteriol. 2009 Jun;191(11):3706-11. doi: 10.1128/JB.01434-08. Epub 2009 Mar 
27.

The chaperone GroESL enhances the accumulation of soluble, active TraR protein, 
a quorum-sensing transcription factor from Agrobacterium tumefaciens.

Chai Y(1), Winans SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

TraR of Agrobacterium tumefaciens is a LuxR-type quorum-sensing transcription 
factor that regulates genes required for replication and conjugation of the 
tumor-inducing (Ti) plasmid. TraR requires its cognate autoinducer 
N-3-oxooctanoyl-homoserine lactone (OOHL) for resistance of proteolysis in 
wild-type bacteria and for correct protein folding and solubility when 
overexpressed in E. coli. In this study, we ask whether GroESL might also play a 
role in TraR folding, as this molecular chaperone assists many proteins in 
attaining their native tertiary structure. Expression of E. coli GroESL in a 
strain expressing TraR increases the solubility of TraR and increases 
transcriptional activity of a TraR-dependent promoter. Both solubility and 
activity still require OOHL. We also studied the folding of TraR in the closely 
related bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti. A mutation in one groEL gene slightly 
decreased the expression of a TraR-dependent promoter, strongly decreased the 
accumulation of TraR in Western immunoblot assays, and also strongly influenced 
the fate of pulse-labeled TraR.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01434-08
PMCID: PMC2681920
PMID: 19329639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Vaccine. 2009 Feb 25;27(9):1448-53. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.12.027. Epub 
2009 Jan 10.

Process development for the production of an E. coli produced clinical grade 
recombinant malaria vaccine for Plasmodium vivax.

Bell BA(1), Wood JF, Bansal R, Ragab H, Cargo J 3rd, Washington MA, Wood CL, 
Ware LA, Ockenhouse CF, Yadava A.

Author information:
(1)Pilot BioProduction Facility, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver 
Spring, MD 20910, United States.

The global eradication of malaria will require the development of vaccines to 
prevent infection cause by Plasmodium vivax in addition to Plasmodium 
falciparum. In an attempt to contribute to this effort we have previously 
reported the cloning and expression of a vaccine based on the circumsporozoite 
protein of P. vivax. The synthetic vaccine encodes for a full-length molecule 
encompassing the N-terminal and C-terminal regions flanking a chimeric repeat 
region representing VK210 and VK247, the two major alleles of P. vivax CSP. The 
vaccine, designated vivax malaria protein 001 (VMP001), was purified to >95% 
homogeneity using a three-column purification scheme and had low endotoxin 
levels and passed the rabbit pyrogenicity assay. The protein is recognized by 
monoclonal antibodies directed against the two repeat motifs, as well as 
polyclonal antibodies. Immunization with VMP001 induced high titer antibodies in 
mice using Montanide ISA 720. We currently have more than 10,000 doses of 
purified bulk and 1800 vials of formulated bulk vaccine available for clinical 
testing and VMP001 is currently undergoing further development as a candidate 
vaccine to prevent malaria in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.12.027
PMID: 19138714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2011 Feb;30(1):69-79. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0070.

Single-chain variable fragment antibody against human aspartyl/asparaginyl 
beta-hydroxylase expressed in recombinant Escherichia coli.

Yang H(1), Wang H, Xue T, Xue XP, Huyan T, Wang W, Song K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi 
West Road, Xi'an, China.

The human aspartyl beta-hydroxylase (HAAH) is a highly conserved enzyme that 
hydroxylates epidermal growth factor-like domains in transformation-associated 
proteins. Previous studies showed that the gene of HAAH was overexpressed in 
many human malignancies. In the present study, the HAAH-specific single-chain 
variable fragment (ScFv) antibody was produced in recombinant Escherichia coli. 
The variable regions of the genes of the heavy chain (VH) and light chain (VL) 
cloned from the hybridoma cells G3/F11 were connected with a flexible linker 
using an overlap extension polymerase chain reaction. Nucleotide sequence 
analysis revealed that the anti-HAAH VH was a member of the VH V gene family and 
the VL gene belonged to the Vκ gene family VI subgroup. Extensive efforts to 
express the functional ScFv antibody in E. coli have been made by using two 
different prokaryotic expression vectors-pHEN1 and pET-16b-to compare the 
expression level and solubility of the antibody. The recombinant 
pHEN1/E1-anti-HAAH vector could express soluble ScFv, although the yield was 
only 7.8% of the total cellular protein. However, the pET-16b/E2-anti-HAAH 
vector produced the ScFv as inclusion bodies inside the host cytoplasm, although 
the expression level of the antibody was quite high (28.5% of the total cellular 
protein). Soluble ScFv antibody produced by pHEN1/E1-anti-HAAH was characterized 
for its antigen-binding characteristics. Its antigen affinity as antibody was 
measured by indirect enzyme linked immunosorbent assay analysis and proved to 
have high binding activity to the antigen HAAH.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0070
PMID: 21466288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2000 Apr;30(4):298-302. doi: 
10.1046/j.1472-765x.2000.00714.x.

The solubility of the ribotoxin alpha-sarcin, produced as a recombinant protein 
in Escherichia coli, is increased in the presence of thioredoxin.

García-Ortega L(1), Lacadena J, Lacadena V, Masip M, De Antonio C, Martínez-Ruiz 
A, Martínez Del Pozo A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular I, Facultad de Química, 
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

The yield of purified recombinant alpha-sarcin increases approximately three- to 
fourfold when this toxin is co-expressed in Escherichia coli with thioredoxin. 
This increased production is attributed to the existence, in the presence of 
thioredoxin, of a reducing environment which allows rearrangement of incorrect 
disulphide bonds to produce the soluble native conformation. The protein thus 
produced retains the structural, spectroscopic and enzymatic features of the 
natural fungal alpha-sarcin.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1472-765x.2000.00714.x
PMID: 10792650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Biotechnol Prog. 2005 May-Jun;21(3):965-70. doi: 10.1021/bp050014e.

Expression of functional recombinant mussel adhesive protein type 3A in 
Escherichia coli.

Hwang DS(1), Gim Y, Cha HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Division of Molecular and Life 
Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Korea.

Mussel adhesive proteins, including the 20-plus variants of foot protein type 3 
(fp-3), have been suggested as potential environmentally friendly adhesives for 
use in aqueous conditions and in medicine. Here we report the novel production 
of a recombinant Mytilus galloprovincialis foot protein type 3 variant A 
(Mgfp-3A) fused with a hexahistidine affinity ligand in Escherichia coli and its 
approximately 99% purification with affinity chromatography. Recombinant Mgfp-3A 
showed a superior purification yield and better apparent solubility in 5% acetic 
acid (prerequisites for large-scale production and practical use) compared to 
those of the previously reported recombinant M. galloprovincialis foot protein 
type 5 (Mgfp-5). The adsorption abilities and adhesion forces of purified 
recombinant Mgfp-3A were compared with those of Cell-Tak (a commercial mussel 
extract adhesive) and recombinant Mgfp-5 using quartz crystal microbalance 
analysis and modified atomic force microscopy, respectively. These assays showed 
that the adhesive ability of recombinant Mgfp-3A was comparable to that of 
Cell-Tak but lower than that of recombinant Mgfp-5. Collectively, these results 
indicate that recombinant Mgfp-3A may be useful as a commercial bioadhesive or 
an adhesive ingredient in medical or underwater environments.

DOI: 10.1021/bp050014e
PMID: 15932281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2013 Feb;31(1):46-8, 
53.

[Immunogenicity analysis of recombinant GST protein of Fasciola hepatica in SD 
rats].

[Article in Chinese]

Wen XB, Ran XH, Wang CR, Song BF, Wei XM, Li XJ, Wang M, Miao Y.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the immunogenicity of recombinant glutathione 
S-transferase protein of Fasciola hepatica (FhGST) in SD rats.
METHODS: The recombinant expression plasmid pET30a-FhGST was transformed into E. 
coli BL21 (DE3) cells and induced with IPTG for protein expression. The 
recombinant protein FhGST was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and identified by Western 
blotting. Twenty SD rats were randomly divided into two groups: immunized group 
and adjuvant control group. SD rats in immunized group were injected 
subcutaneously with 200 microg of purified FhGST protein. The adjuvant control 
group with 10 SD rats received only adjuvants emulsified with PBS. All the rats 
received three immunizations at 3-week intervals. Serum samples were collected 
at pre-immunization, the day after each immunization, 3 weeks and 6 weeks after 
the final immunization. The IgG antibody of rats' sera was examined by indirect 
ELISA and spleen lymphocyte proliferation (SLP) was tested by MTT.
RESULTS: The molecular weight of purified FhGST was about M(r) 31 300. The 
recombinant FhGST was recognized by pool sera of goats naturally infected with 
F. hepatica. The recombinant protein induced specific antibody IgG against GST 
protein in SD rats significantly higher than that of the control, and the 
antibody titer reached the peak at 9 weeks after the first immunization (GMT 
1:89 144). FhGST protein significantly enhanced the growth and proliferation of 
rat splenocytes.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant FhGST protein induces specific immune response in SD 
rats.

PMID: 24812837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. J Virol Methods. 2008 Nov;153(2):120-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2008.07.024. 
Epub 2008 Sep 11.

Effective modifications for improved homologous recombination and 
high-efficiency generation of recombinant adenovirus-based vectors.

Wu C(1), Nerurkar VR, Yanagihara R, Lu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, John A. Burns School of Medicine, 
University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822, USA.

Generation of adenovirus-based vectors through homologous recombination within 
Escherichia coli cells is one of the most efficient strategies. A common 
challenge associated with this method is the formation of colonies containing 
self-ligated shuttle plasmid. To improve homologous recombination, a new 
pAdEasy-1-bearing competent cell line was constructed so that it no longer 
requires co-transformation with two plasmids and can generate more recombinant 
colonies (ninefold). New and efficient approaches were also tested to block 
shuttle plasmid self-ligation by a combined treatment of the plasmid with Taq 
DNA polymerase and calf intestine phosphatase (CIP) or blocking the formation of 
self-ligated plasmid-containing colonies by subcloning a suicide gene, ccdB, 
into the plasmid construct. Present experimental data show that these 
modifications are effective in eliminating self-ligated plasmid-containing 
colony background and offer greater simplicity, faster experimental progress, 
and higher efficiency in performing homologous recombination within E. coli 
cells, which could facilitate the production of high-titer infectious viral 
particles.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2008.07.024
PMCID: PMC2849798
PMID: 18755219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Aug;27(8):880-2.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of human Nodal 
mature peptide].

[Article in Chinese]

Li LL(1), Jiang GM, Zhang G, Wang H, Fang R, DU J.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, 
China.

AIM: To express the fusion protein of human Nodal mature peptide in 
prokaryocytes and to prepare mouse anti-Nodal polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The expression vector pReceiver-hNodal was constructed and transformed 
into BL21(DE3). His(6);-hNodal fusion protein was induced by IPTG and separated 
on SDS-PAGE and the recovered fusion protein was used to immune BALB/c to 
produce polyclonal antibody. The titer of the polyclonal antibody was detected 
by indirect ELISA and its specificity was analyzed byWestern blot and 
immunochemical staining.
RESULTS: The expected molecular weight of fusion protein around 15 000 was 
highly expressed in E.coli and specific antibody was obtained.
CONCLUSION: The successful preparation of anti-Nodal mature peptide polyclonal 
antibody will lay the basis for further study of the biological function of 
Nodal on tumor progress.

PMID: 21806886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2002 Jun;16(2):109-13.

[Expression of the main structural antigen VP6 of human rotavirus by recombinant 
adenovirus and immune responses induced in vivo].

[Article in Chinese]

He J(1), Wang J, Jiang X, Wang D, Wen L, Dong J, Qu J, Hong T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Virology,Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, Beijing 100052, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Constructing replication defective recombinant adenovirus vector 
expressing the group specific antigen VP6 of human rotavirus and studying the 
immune responses induced in vivo.
METHODS: The cDNA of full length VP6 was inserted into the adenovirus vector 
pShuttle-CMV, and recombinant adenovirus genome DNA was obtained through 
homological recombination in E.coli,then the recombinant adenovirus was gained 
after transfecting 293 cell line with the genome DNA. Gene integration of VP6 in 
resultant adenovirus was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot, respectively gene 
expression was confirmed in 293 cells by Western blot. BALB/c mice were 
immunized intranasally(inl)and orally(ora), respectively, to test the 
immunization effects of the adenovirus.
RESULTS: Recombinant adenovirus named rvAd-VP6 was obtained. The cDNA of VP6 was 
integrated in the adenovirus and was able to be expressed in 293 cells stably. 
The systemic immune responses to rotavirus VP6 could be induced effectively in 
both oral and intranasal group, the titer of serum IgG antibody in the two group 
of mice were 1?1 000 and 1?10 000-1?100 000, respectively. In addition to IgG, 
the serum IgA specific to VP6 could also be detected at a titer of 1?10-1?100. 
Secretory IgA(sIgA) was detected in both lung lavage fluid and intestinal 
homogenate when administered intranasally to BALB/c mice, whereas only found in 
intestinal homogenate in the oral group. The results indicated that the 
immunization efficacy of intranasal inoculation was superior to that of oral 
inoculation.
CONCLUSIONS: The recombinant adenovirus vector expressing human rotavirus VP6 
was successfully constructed, its ability to induce immune responses has laid a 
solid foundation for the development of rotavirus genetically engineering 
vaccine against rotavirus infection.

PMID: 12196818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2011 Sep;27(5):416-20.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of HPV6b E7 
protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang Y(1), Zhou Q, Wang Q, Cheng H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, School of Medicine, Sun Run Run 
Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, China. tangyi.hz@163.com

To express and prepare polyclonal antibody of Human papillomavirus type 6b 
(HPV6b) E7 protein. a prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-4T-2/HPV6b E7 was 
constructed and GST-HPV6b E7 fusion protein was expressed as a soluble protein 
in E. coli. The expressed fusion protein was purified via Glutathione-Sepharose 
4B column and thrombin cleavage in order to obtain HPV6b E7 protein. Polyclonal 
IgG antibody was prepared by immunizing New-Zealand rabbits with HPV6b E7 
protein. Western-Blot and immunofluorescence analysis showed that the polyclonal 
IgG antibody could specifically recognize HPV6b E7 protein and its titer was 
identified. SDS-PAGE analysis demonstrated that large amounts of soluble 
GST-HPV6b E7 fusion protein was expressed in E. coli after 3.0-6.0 hours of IPTG 
induction. Polyclonal IgG antibody successfully prepared from immunized rabbits 
showed high titer and high specificity as confirmed by Western-Blot and 
immunofluorescence. The preparation of anti-HPV6b E7 polyclonal antibody will 
facilitate further research on the biological and immunological functions of 
HPV6b E7 protein.

PMID: 21998951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2018 Nov 8;11:305. doi: 10.1186/s13068-018-1297-3. 
eCollection 2018.

Genome mining of 2-phenylethanol biosynthetic genes from Enterobacter sp. CGMCC 
5087 and heterologous overproduction in Escherichia coli.

Liu C(1)(2), Zhang K(1)(2), Cao W(1)(2), Zhang G(1)(2)(3), Chen G(1)(2)(3), Yang 
H(1)(2), Wang Q(3), Liu H(3), Xian M(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, No.189 Songling Road, 
Laoshan District, Qingdao, 266101 China.
(2)2University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)3Key Laboratory for Tobacco Gene Resources' Tobacco Research Institute, 
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao, 266101 People's Republic of 
China.

BACKGROUND: 2-Phenylethanol (2-PE) is a higher aromatic alcohol that is widely 
used in the perfumery, cosmetics, and food industries and is also a potentially 
valuable next-generation biofuel. In our previous study, a new strain 
Enterobacter sp. CGMCC 5087 was isolated to produce 2-PE from glucose through 
the phenylpyruvate pathway.
RESULTS: In this study, candidate genes for 2-PE biosynthesis were identified 
from Enterobacter sp. CGMCC 5087 by draft whole-genome sequence, metabolic 
engineering, and shake flask fermentation. Subsequently, the identified genes 
encoding the 2-keto acid decarboxylase (Kdc) and alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh) 
enzymes from Enterobacter sp. CGMCC 5087 were introduced into E. coli BL21(DE3) 
to construct a high-efficiency microbial cell factory for 2-PE production using 
the prokaryotic phenylpyruvate pathway. The enzymes Kdc4427 and Adh4428 from 
Enterobacter sp. CGMCC 5087 showed higher performances than did the 
corresponding enzymes ARO10 and ADH2 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 
respectively. The E. coli cell factory was further improved by overexpressing 
two upstream shikimate pathway genes, aroF/aroG/aroH and pheA, to enhance the 
metabolic flux of the phenylpyruvate pathway, which resulted in 2-PE production 
of 260 mg/L. The combined overexpression of tktA and ppsA increased the 
precursor supply of erythrose-4-phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate, which 
resulted in 2-PE production of 320 mg/L, with a productivity of 13.3 mg/L/h.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study achieved the highest titer of de novo 2-PE 
production of in a recombinant E. coli system. This study describes a new, 
efficient 2-PE producer that lays foundation for the industrial-scale production 
of 2-PE and its derivatives in the future.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-018-1297-3
PMCID: PMC6223000
PMID: 30455734


857. J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016;26(6):359-368. doi: 10.1159/000446962. Epub 
2016 Jul 28.

Soluble Prokaryotic Expression and Purification of Human Interferon Alpha-2b 
Using a Maltose-Binding Protein Tag.

Vu TT(1), Jeong B, Krupa M, Kwon U, Song JA, Do BH, Nguyen MT, Seo T, Nguyen AN, 
Joo CH, Choe H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, Asan 
Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

Human interferon alpha-2b (IFNα-2b) has therapeutic applications as an antiviral 
and antiproliferative drug and has been used for a wide range of indications. 
Efficient production of IFNα-2b in Escherichia coli has been difficult because 
the protein tends to form inclusion bodies. This obstacle has garnered interest 
in efficiently expressing IFNα-2b and overcoming its poor solubility. In this 
study, seven N-terminal fusion partners - hexahistidine (His6), thioredoxin, 
glutathione S-transferase (GST), maltose-binding protein (MBP), N-utilization 
substance protein A, protein disulfide bond isomerase (PDI), and b'a' domain of 
PDI - were tested for soluble overexpression of codon-optimized IFNα-2b in E. 
coli. Low temperature increased the expression level of all of the tagged 
proteins except for the GST fusion. All the tags, except for His6 and GST, 
improved solubility. We purified IFNα-2b from the MBP-tagged fusion using 
immobilized metal affinity chromatography and anion exchange chromatography, and 
obtained a final yield of 7.2 mg from an initial 500-ml culture. The endotoxin 
level was 0.46 EU/µg. Biological activity was demonstrated using a luciferase 
assay, which showed a dose-dependent response with a calculated EC50 of 10.3 ± 
5.9 pM. Our results demonstrate that using an MBP-tagged fusion is an efficient 
way to produce pure IFNα-2b.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000446962
PMID: 27463335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Int J Ophthalmol. 2017 Apr 18;10(4):560-566. doi: 10.18240/ijo.2017.04.10. 
eCollection 2017.

Soluble expression of recomb inant cMyc, Klf4, Oct4, and Sox2 proteins in 
bacteria and transduction into living cells.

Liu GD(1), Zhou SF(2), Ding XC(1), Fang CL(1), Mi SY(1), Gao XC(1), Han Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin 150001, Heilongjiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Emergency, the First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin 150001, Heilongjiang Province, China.

AIM: To develop a new method to produce recombinant reprogramming proteins, 
cMyc, Klf4, Oct4, and Sox2, in soluble format with low cost for the generation 
of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs).
METHODS: A short polypeptide sequence derived from the HIV trans-activator of 
transcription protein (TAT) and the nucleus localization signal (NLS) 
polypeptide were fused to the N terminus of the reprogramming proteins and they 
were constructed into pCold-SUMO vector which can extremely improve the 
solubility of recombinant proteins. Then these vector plasmids were transformed 
into E. coli BL21 (DE3) Chaperone competent cells for amplification. The 
solubility of these recombinant proteins was determined by SDS-PAGE and 
Coomassie brilliant blue staining. The recombinant proteins were purified by 
Ni-NTA resin and identified by Western blot. The transduction of these proteins 
into HEK 293T cells were evaluated by immunofluorescence staining.
RESULTS: These four reprogramming proteins could be produced in soluble format 
in pCold-SUMO expression vector system with the assistance of chaperone proteins 
in bacteria. The proteins were purified successfully with a purity of over 70% 
with a relative high transduction rate into 293 cells.
CONCLUSION: The results in the present study indicate the four important 
reprogramming proteins, cMyc, Klf4, Oct4, and Sox2, can be produced in soluble 
format in bacteria with low cost. Our new method thus might be expected to 
greatly contribute to the future study of iPSCs.

DOI: 10.18240/ijo.2017.04.10
PMCID: PMC5406633
PMID: 28503428


859. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2022 Feb;69(1):136-144. doi: 10.1002/bab.2089. Epub 
2021 Jan 5.

Cloning, expression, and characterization of a novel sericin-like protein.

Bostan F(1), Surmeli NB(2).

Author information:
(1)Program in Biotechnology and Bioengineering, İzmir Institute of Technology, 
Gülbahce, Urla Izmir, Turkey.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, İzmir Institute of Technology, Gülbahce, Urla 
Izmir, Turkey.

Silk consists of two proteins called fibroin and sericin. While fibroin is used 
in the textile industry and has various biomaterial applications, sericin has 
been considered as waste material until recently. Sericin is a multicomponent 
protein and it has important properties such as biocompatibility, 
biodegradability, cryoprotectivity, and antioxidant. Sericin from silkworm 
cocoons can be obtained by chemical, enzymatic, and heat treatment methods. 
However, sericin obtained with these treatment methods is not of consistent and 
high quality. Moreover, the exposure of sericin to harsh conditions during 
extraction leads to inconsistencies in the composition and structure of the 
sericin obtained. The inconsistencies in sericin structure and composition 
decrease application of sericin as a biomaterial. Here, we produce a 
sericin-like protein (Ser4mer) with native sequence of sericin encoding four 
repeats of the conserved 38 amino acid motif recombinantly in Escherichia coli 
and characterize its structural properties. Ser4mer protein shows similar 
structure to native sericin and higher solubility than previously obtained 
recombinant sericin-like proteins. Recombinant production of a soluble 
sericin-like protein will significantly expand its applications as a 
biomaterial. In addition, recombinant production of silk proteins will allow us 
to understand sequence-structure relationships in these proteins.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.2089
PMID: 33368658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Jul;34(7):643-649.

[Preparation and application of rabbit polyclonal antibody against mouse Tex33].

[Article in Chinese]

Xia M(1), Xia J(1), Yang D(1), Liu M(1), Niu C(1), Shen X(1), Sun H(1), Zheng 
Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, School of Medicine, Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou 225001, China.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, School of Medicine, Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou 225001, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
yzzkl@163.com.

Objective To prepare rabbit-antimouse testis expressed 33 (Tex33) polyclonal 
antibody and detect the expression of Tex33 during mouse spermatogenesis. 
Methods Tex33 open reading frame was amplified by PCR from mouse testis cDNA. 
The PCR product was finally sub-cloned into pET-30a vector. The prokaryotic 
expression plasmid pET-30a-Tex33 was constructed and then transformed into E. 
coli BL21. Tex33 prokaryotic protein was induced by IPTG and then purified by 
Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. Tex33 polyclonal antibody was obtained from 
adult male New Zealand white rabbits immunized with purified Tex33 protein. 
ELISA, Western blotting and immunofluorescence assays were used to determine the 
potency and specificity. Results pET-30a-Tex33 recombinant vector was 
successfully constructed. After induced by IPTG, the recombinant Tex33 protein 
could be expressed effectively. The titer of polyclonal antibody was 1:1 000 
000. Western blotting showed that the antibody could recognize Tex33 protein in 
mouse testis. Immunofluorescence assay revealed that Tex33 gene was expressed in 
spermatids and sperms of adult mouse testis. And Tex33 was located on the 
acrosome and flagellum of spermatozoa. Conclusion We have prepared 
rabbit-antimouse Tex33 polyclonal antibody with high specificity and found that 
Tex33 gene was expressed in mouse testis.

PMID: 30381129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Aug;72(2):244-53. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.03.008. Epub 
2010 Mar 17.

Synthesis of human renalase1 in Escherichia coli and its purification as a 
FAD-containing holoprotein.

Pandini V(1), Ciriello F, Tedeschi G, Rossoni G, Zanetti G, Aliverti A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomolecolari e Biotecnologie, Università degli Studi 
di Milano, via Celoria 26, 20133 Milano, Italy.

Renalase is a protein ubiquitous in vertebrates, which has been proposed to 
modulate blood pressure and heart rate, and whose downregulation might result in 
hypertension. Despite its potential relevance for human health, the biochemical 
characterization of renalase is still lacking, possibly due to difficulties in 
obtaining it in recombinant form. By expressing two different gene constructs, 
we found that the major isoform of human renalase, renalase1, is mainly produced 
in Escherichia coli in inclusion bodies. However, by optimizing the expression 
conditions, significant amounts of soluble products were obtained. Both soluble 
renalase forms have been purified to homogeneity exploiting their N-terminal 
His-tag. Linking of the protein of interest to the SUMO protein did not improve 
solubility, but yielded untagged renalase1 after proteolytic processing of the 
fusion product. The two recombinant renalase forms displayed the same molecular 
properties. They bind equimolar amounts of FAD and appear to be correctly folded 
by various criteria. The procedures for the production and isolation of 
recombinant renalase1 here reported are expected to boost the much awaited 
biochemical studies on this remarkable protein.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.03.008
PMID: 20302943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2010 Sep;11(3):201-9. doi: 10.1007/s10969-010-9093-8. 
Epub 2010 Jun 24.

Engineering of a wheat germ expression system to provide compatibility with a 
high throughput pET-based cloning platform.

Zhao L(1), Zhao KQ, Hurst R, Slater MR, Acton TB, Swapna GV, Shastry R, 
Kornhaber GJ, Montelione GT.

Author information:
(1)Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, University of Medicine and 
Dentistry of New Jersey, Piscataway, 08854, USA.

Wheat germ cell-free methods provide an important approach for the production of 
eukaryotic proteins. We have developed a protein expression vector for the 
TNT((R)) SP6 High-Yield Wheat Germ Cell-Free (TNT WGCF) expression system 
(Promega) that is also compatible with our T7-based Escherichia coli 
intracellular expression vector pET15_NESG. This allows cloning of the same PCR 
product into either one of several pET_NESG vectors and this modified WGCF 
vector (pWGHisAmp) by In-Fusion LIC cloning (Zhu et al. in Biotechniques 
43:354-359, 2007). Integration of these two vector systems allowed us to explore 
the efficacy of the TNT WGCF system by comparing the expression and solubility 
characteristics of 59 human protein constructs in both WGCF and pET15_NESG E. 
coli intracellular expression. While only 30% of these human proteins could be 
produced in soluble form using the pET15_NESG based system, some 70% could be 
produced in soluble form using the TNT WGCF system. This high success rate 
underscores the importance of eukaryotic expression host systems like the TNT 
WGCF system for eukaryotic protein production in a structural genomics sample 
production pipeline. To further demonstrate the value of this WGCF system in 
producing protein suitable for structural studies, we scaled up, purified, and 
analyzed by 2D NMR two (15)N-, (13)C-enriched human proteins. The results of 
this study indicate that the TNT WGCF system is a successful salvage pathway for 
producing samples of difficult-to-express small human proteins for NMR studies, 
providing an important complementary pathway for eukaryotic sample production in 
the NESG NMR structure production pipeline.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-010-9093-8
PMCID: PMC2921493
PMID: 20574660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Biochemistry. 2008 Apr 8;47(14):4276-87. doi: 10.1021/bi702435v. Epub 2008 Mar 
11.

Chaperone-aided in vitro renaturation of an engineered E1 envelope protein for 
detection of anti-Rubella virus IgG antibodies.

Scholz C(1), Thirault L, Schaarschmidt P, Zarnt T, Faatz E, Engel AM, Upmeier B, 
Bollhagen R, Eckert B, Schmid FX.

Author information:
(1)Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Nonnenwald 2, D-82377 Penzberg, Germany. 
christian.scholz@roche.com

The envelope glycoproteins of Rubella virus, E1 and E2, mediate cell tropism, 
and E1 in particular plays a pivotal role in the fusion of the virus with the 
endosomal membrane. Both are the prime targets of the humoral immune response. 
Recombinant variants of the E1 ectodomain as well as E1 antigen preparations 
from virus lysates are commonly used to detect anti-Rubella immunoglobulins in 
human sera. Hitherto, recombinant E1 for diagnostic applications has been 
produced chiefly in eukaryotic expression systems. Here, we report the 
high-yield overproduction of an engineered E1 ectodomain in the Escherichia coli 
cytosol and its simple and convenient renaturation into a highly soluble and 
immunoreactive conformation. C-Terminal fusion to one or two units of the E. 
coli chaperone SlyD enhances expression, facilitates in vitro refolding, and 
improves the overall solubility of Rubella E1. As part of this fusion protein, 
the E1 ectodomain fragment of residues 201-432 adopts an immunoreactive fold, 
providing a promising tool for the sensitive and specific detection of anti-E1 
IgG in Rubella serology. Two disulfide bonds in the membrane-adjacent part of 
the E1 ectodomain are sufficient to generate conformations with a high and 
specific antigenicity. The covalently attached chaperone modules do not impair 
antibody recognition and binding of Rubella E1 when assessed in a heterogeneous 
immunoassay. SlyD and related folding helpers are apparently generic tools for 
the expression and refolding of otherwise unavailable proteins of diagnostic or 
medical importance.

DOI: 10.1021/bi702435v
PMID: 18330994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Acta Virol. 2002;46(3):147-51.

Polyclonal antibodies to a recombinant coat protein of Potato virus A.

Cerovská N(1), Moravec T, Velemínský J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Botany, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, 
Na Karlovce 1a, 160 00 Prague 6, Czech Republic. cerovska@ueb.cas.cz

Specific mouse antibodies against a recombinant coat protein (CP) of Potato 
virus A (PVA) were produced. The PVA CP gene was cloned in an expression vector 
pMPM4omega. After expression in Escherichia coli the presence of the expressed 
CP was proved by Western blot analysis using polyclonal and monoclonal 
antibodies (MAbs). The expressed CP was purified by centrifugation in CsCl 
density gradient or on a sucrose cushion. The production of virus-like particles 
(VLPs) was proved by electron microscopy. The purified CP was used for 
preparation of a mouse antiserum which had a titer of 1:1024 in ELISA and 
reacted specifically in Western blot analysis and indirect plate-trapped antigen 
ELISA (PTA-ELISA).

PMID: 12580376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Biotechnol. 2021 Jan 10;325:145-151. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.11.005. Epub 
2020 Nov 6.

NT*-HRV3CP: An optimized construct of human rhinovirus 14 3C protease for 
high-yield expression and fast affinity-tag cleavage.

Abdelkader EH(1), Otting G(2).

Author information:
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Innovations in Peptide and Protein Science, 
Australian National University, Research School of Chemistry, Canberra, ACT 
2601, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence in Innovations in Peptide and Protein Science, 
Australian National University, Research School of Chemistry, Canberra, ACT 
2601, Australia. Electronic address: gottfried.otting@anu.edu.au.

The human rhinovirus 14 3C protease (HRV3C protease), in fusion with glutathione 
S-transferase also referred to as PreScission™ protease, is a cysteine protease 
of particular interest for affinity tag removal from fusion proteins due to its 
stringent recognition sequence specificity (LEVLFQ/GX) and superior activity at 
low temperature. Here we report the expression, purification and use of a fusion 
construct of HRV3C protease, NT*-HRV3CP, that affords high expression yield in 
E. coli (over 300 mg/L cell culture), facile single-step purification, high 
solubility (>10 mg/mL) and excellent storage properties. NT*-HRV3CP cleaves 
affinity tags at 4 °C in minutes, making it an attractive tool for the 
production of recombinant proteins for biotechnological, industrial and 
pharmaceutical applications.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.11.005
PMID: 33166527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 May;169:105548. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105548. Epub 
2019 Nov 29.

Non-structural protein 1 from Japanese encephalitis virus expressed in E. coli 
retains its molecular weight and immunogenicity.

Choi JW(1), Eom HJ(2), Kim HY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, 28644, 
Republic of Korea; School of Biological Sciences, Chungbuk National University, 
Cheongju, 28644, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: jwchoi0211@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, 28644, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, 28644, 
Republic of Korea; School of Biological Sciences, Chungbuk National University, 
Cheongju, 28644, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hykim@chungbuk.ac.kr.

Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is a member of the Flavivirus genus and has 
recently attracted attention as a high-risk pathogen in the Asia-Pacific region, 
with up to 30% mortality in the afflicted patients. Recent outbreaks of 
flavivirus-associated infections around the world have put the focus on 
non-structural protein 1 (NS1) as a candidate for diagnostic and vaccine 
researches on flaviviruses. Although the JEV NS1 protein has been expressed in 
eukaryotic cells, attempts to express JEV NS1 in E. coli are on due to 
advantages such as rapid growth, easy manipulation, low cost, and high yield. 
However, the challenges of low yield and poor solubility of the proteins 
expressed in E. coli remain to be overcome. Herein, we reported successful 
expression of the JEV NS1 protein in E. coli Rosetta(DE3) strain. We 
standardized the temperature, induction time, as well as the concentration of 
the inducer for optimizing the expression of JEV NS1 in E. coli. Further, we 
successfully obtained soluble JEV NS1 from inclusion bodies by partial refolding 
during elution and gradual refolding during dialysis. Furthermore, the JEV NS1 
protein was found to retain its molecular weight and was able to induce an 
immune response in the mouse. Western blot and indirect enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay were performed using the blood of the immunized mouse and 
purified JEV NS1 in this study. Hence, JEV NS1 expressed in and isolated from E. 
coli Rosetta(DE3) strain holds potential for application in vaccine development 
and diagnostic studies to combat Japanese encephalitis outbreaks in the future.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105548
PMID: 31786309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2006 Dec;46(6):999-1002.

[Expression of actA gene of Listeria monocytogenes in Escherichia coli and 
preparation of ActA monoclonal antibodies].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin YL(1), Dong H, Jiao XA, Jiao HM, Gu ZQ, Yuan Z, Zhang CJ, Zheng CF.

Author information:
(1)Bioscience and Biotechnology College, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, 
China.

The actA gene was amplified from Lm-4 strain of Listeria monocytogenes serotype 
1/2a by PCR and inserted into T vector. Sequencing showed actA gene was 1833bp 
long and nucleotide homology was 100% compared with actA gene of Listeria 
monocytogenes EGD strain in GenBank. The cloned actA gene was then inserted into 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-6P-1 and pET respectively. The predicted 
fusion protein was detected by SDS-PAGE after IPTG induction of recombinant 
bacteria. The fusion protein expressed in both vectors showed approximate 
molecular weight of 120kDa and 97kDa. The expressed fusion protein His-ActA was 
purified and used as antigen to immunize BALB/c mice, hybridomas were generated 
with traditional hybridoma techniques. McAbs were screened by ELISA, four 
hybridoma cell lines secreting antibodies against ActA protein were established 
and the ELISA titer of these ascitic McAbs were around 1 :5 x 10(4) - 1: 1 x 
10(5) . The subtype and specifity of McAbs were identified by kit and Western 
blot. The McAb 1A5 reacted with the expressed fusion protein GST-ActA and 
His-ActA in Western blot, consistent with that of mouse anti-Lm-4 polyclonal 
antibodies. The successful expression of ActA protein in E. coli and preparation 
of its monoclonal antibodies has provided useful tools for studies on the 
biological activity of ActA protein and its role in listerial pathogenesis.

PMID: 17302169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Biomolecules. 2022 Feb 8;12(2):273. doi: 10.3390/biom12020273.

Robust Recombinant Expression of Human Placental Ribonuclease Inhibitor in 
Insect Cells.

Flachner B(1), Dobi K(1), Benedek A(1), Cseh S(1), Lőrincz Z(1), Hajdú I(1).

Author information:
(1)TargetEx Ltd., Madách I. u. 31/2., H-2120 Dunakeszi, Hungary.

Ribonuclease inhibitors (RIs) are an indispensable biotechnological tool for the 
detection and manipulation of RNA. Nowadays, due to the outbreak of COVID-19, 
highly sensitive detection of RNA has become more important than ever. Although 
the recombinant expression of RNase inhibitors is possible in E. coli, the 
robust expression is complicated by maintaining the redox potential and 
solubility by various expression tags. In the present paper we describe the 
expression of RI in baculovirus-infected High Five cells in large scale 
utilizing a modified transfer vector combining the beneficial properties of 
Profinity Exact Tag and pONE system. The recombinant RI is expressed at a high 
level in a fusion form, which is readily cleaved during on-column 
chromatography. A subsequent anion exchange chromatography was used as a 
polishing step to yield 12 mg native RI per liter of culture. RI expressed in 
insect cells shows higher thermal stability than the commercially available RI 
products (mainly produced in E. coli) based on temperature-dependent RNase 
inhibition studies. The endotoxin-free RI variant may also be applied in future 
therapeutics as a safe additive to increase mRNA stability in mRNA-based 
vaccines.

DOI: 10.3390/biom12020273
PMID: 35204774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 May 17;22(10):5267. doi: 10.3390/ijms22105267.

Soluble Prokaryotic Overexpression and Purification of Human GM-CSF Using the 
Protein Disulfide Isomerase b'a' Domain.

Nguyen TKO(1), Vu TL(1), Nguyen MQ(1), Ta HKK(1), Park KS(2), Kim SH(2), Kim 
CJ(3), Jang YJ(1), Choe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul 05505, Korea.
(2)Wide River Institute of Immunology, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul 25159, Korea.
(3)Department of Pathology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, 
Seoul 05505, Korea.

Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a member of the 
colony-stimulating factor (CSF) family, which functions to enhance the 
proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells and other 
hematopoietic lineages such as neutrophils, dendritic cells, or macrophages. 
These proteins have thus generated considerable interest in clinical therapy 
research. A current obstacle to the prokaryotic production of human GM-CSF 
(hGM-CSF) is its low solubility when overexpressed and subsequent complex 
refolding processes. In our present study, the solubility of hGM-CSF was 
examined when combined with three N-terminal fusion tags in five E. coli strains 
at three different expression temperatures. In the five E. coli strains BL21 
(DE3), ClearColi BL21 (DE3), LOBSTR, SHuffle T7 and Origami2 (DE3), the 
hexahistidine-tagged hGM-CSF showed the best expression but was insoluble in all 
cases at each examined temperature. Tagging with the maltose-binding protein 
(MBP) and the b'a' domain of protein disulfide isomerase (PDIb'a') greatly 
improved the soluble overexpression of hGM-CSF at 30 °C and 18 °C. The 
solubility was not improved using the Origami2 (DE3) and SHuffle T7 strains that 
have been engineered for disulfide bond formation. Two conventional 
chromatographic steps were used to purify hGM-CSF from the overexpressed 
PDIb'a'-hGM-CSF produced in ClearColi BL21 (DE3). In the experiment, 0.65 mg of 
hGM-CSF was isolated from a 0.5 L flask culture of these E. coli and showed a 
98% purity by SDS-PAGE analysis and silver staining. The bioactivity of this 
purified hGM-CSF was measured at an EC50 of 16.4 ± 2 pM by a CCK8 assay in TF-1 
human erythroleukemia cells.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22105267
PMCID: PMC8156066
PMID: 34067755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial or 
other interests in relation to this study.


870. BMC Biotechnol. 2004 Dec 14;4:32. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-4-32.

Production of soluble mammalian proteins in Escherichia coli: identification of 
protein features that correlate with successful expression.

Dyson MR(1), Shadbolt SP, Vincent KJ, Perera RL, McCafferty J.

Author information:
(1)The Atlas of Gene Expression Project, The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, 
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SA, UK. mrd@sanger.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: In the search for generic expression strategies for mammalian 
protein families several bacterial expression vectors were examined for their 
ability to promote high yields of soluble protein. Proteins studied included 
cell surface receptors (Ephrins and Eph receptors, CD44), kinases 
(EGFR-cytoplasmic domain, CDK2 and 4), proteases (MMP1, CASP2), signal 
transduction proteins (GRB2, RAF1, HRAS) and transcription factors (GATA2, Fli1, 
Trp53, Mdm2, JUN, FOS, MAD, MAX). Over 400 experiments were performed where 
expression of 30 full-length proteins and protein domains were evaluated with 6 
different N-terminal and 8 C-terminal fusion partners. Expression of an 
additional set of 95 mammalian proteins was also performed to test the 
conclusions of this study.
RESULTS: Several protein features correlated with soluble protein expression 
yield including molecular weight and the number of contiguous hydrophobic 
residues and low complexity regions. There was no relationship between 
successful expression and protein pI, grand average of hydropathicity (GRAVY), 
or sub-cellular location. Only small globular cytoplasmic proteins with an 
average molecular weight of 23 kDa did not require a solubility enhancing tag 
for high level soluble expression. Thioredoxin (Trx) and maltose binding protein 
(MBP) were the best N-terminal protein fusions to promote soluble expression, 
but MBP was most effective as a C-terminal fusion. 63 of 95 mammalian proteins 
expressed at soluble levels of greater than 1 mg/l as N-terminal H10-MBP fusions 
and those that failed possessed, on average, a higher molecular weight and 
greater number of contiguous hydrophobic amino acids and low complexity regions.
CONCLUSIONS: By analysis of the protein features identified here, this study 
will help predict which mammalian proteins and domains can be successfully 
expressed in E. coli as soluble product and also which are best targeted for a 
eukaryotic expression system. In some cases proteins may be truncated to 
minimise molecular weight and the numbers of contiguous hydrophobic amino acids 
and low complexity regions to aid soluble expression in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-4-32
PMCID: PMC544853
PMID: 15598350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Comp Funct Genomics. 2012;2012:747539. doi: 10.1155/2012/747539. Epub 2012 Mar 
29.

Expression, Purification, and Characterization of Ras Protein (BmRas1) from 
Bombyx mori.

Quan Y(1), Liu G, Yu W, Nie Z, Chen J, Lv Z, Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech 
University, Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou 310018, China.

The Ras subfamily is the member of small G proteins superfamily involved in 
cellular signal transduction. Activation of Ras signaling causes cell growth, 
differentiation, and survival. Bombyx mori Ras-like protein (BmRas1) may belong 
to the Ras subfamily. It contained an H-N-K-Ras-like domain. The BmRas1 mRNA 
consisted of 1459 bp. The open reading frame contained 579 bp, encoding 192 
amino acids. The protein had such secondary structures as α-helices, extended 
strand, and random coil. BmRas1 was expressed successfully in E. coli BL21. The 
recombinant protein was purified with metal-chelating affinity chromatography. 
The GTPase activity of purified protein was determined by 
FeSO(4)-(NH(4))(2)MoO(4) assay. The results showed that purified recombinant 
protein had intrinsic activity of GTPase. High titer polyclonal antibodies were 
generated by New Zealand rabbit immunized with purified protein. The gene 
expression features of BmRas1 at different stages and in different organs of the 
fifth instar larvae were analyzed by Western blot. The results showed that 
BmRas1 was expressed highly in three development stages including egg, pupae, 
and adult, but low expression in larva. BmRas1 was expressed in these tissues 
including head, malpighian tubule, genital gland, and silk gland. The purified 
recombinant protein would be utilized to further function studies of BmRas1.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/747539
PMCID: PMC3321280
PMID: 22536118


872. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;27(2):138-40.

[Preparation and characterization the polyclonal antibody of the nonstructural 
protein of human highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza viruses].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang PY(1), Huang HL, Zhou HC, Xu BY, Gu FP, Min LS, Zhong J, Dai LC.

Author information:
(1)Huzhou Teacher's College, Huzhou 313000, China.

OBJECTIVE: Of this study was to prepare high sensitivity and high specificity of 
highly pathogenic H5N1 subtype avian influenza virus NS1 protein antibody and a 
preliminary assessment of its potency.
METHODS: Construct pET-28a (+) recombinant vector containing the H5N1 subtype of 
avian influenza virus NS1 sequences of E. coli BL21 (DE3), induced expression of 
NS1 protein, NS1 recombinant protein was obtained by Ni-NTA column purified by 
affinity chromatography, and SDS-PAGE and Western Blot analysis. Purified 
protein antigen to immunize New Zealand white rabbits, obtained rabbit anti-NS1 
serum, affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies. Using ELISA and Western Blot 
analysis of purified antibody titer and specificity.
RESULTS: NS1 fusion protein was highly expressed in a purity of greater than 
90%, with the fusion protein was used to immunize New Zealand white rabbits 
anti-NS1 polyclonal antibody titer of 1:80 000, and specific recognition of the 
H5N1 subtype of avian influenza virus NS1 protein.
CONCLUSIONS: NS1 polyclonal antibodies to NS1 recombinant protein purified 
antigen, with better potency and specificity, and to prepare the conditions for 
the development of the H5N1 subtype of avian influenza virus detection kit.

PMID: 24044223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Metab Eng. 2021 Sep;67:308-320. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2021.07.001. Epub 2021 Jul 
7.

Engineering improved ethylene production: Leveraging systems biology and 
adaptive laboratory evolution.

Vaud S(1), Pearcy N(1), Hanževački M(2), Van Hagen AMW(2), Abdelrazig S(3), Safo 
L(3), Ehsaan M(1), Jonczyk M(1), Millat T(1), Craig S(2), Spence E(2), 
Fothergill J(1), Bommareddy RR(2), Colin PY(4), Twycross J(5), Dalby PA(4), 
Minton NP(1), Jäger CM(2), Kim DH(3), Yu J(6), Maness PC(6), Lynch S(7), Eckert 
CA(8), Conradie A(2), Bryan SJ(9).

Author information:
(1)BBSRC/EPSRC Synthetic Biology Research Centre, The Biodiscovery Institute, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK.
(2)Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK.
(3)Centre for Analytical Bioscience, Advanced Materials and Healthcare 
Technologies Division, School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham, NG7 2RD, 
UK.
(4)Department of Biochemical Engineering, Bernard Katz Building, University 
College London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(5)BBSRC/EPSRC Synthetic Biology Research Centre, The Biodiscovery Institute, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK; School of Computer Science, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK.
(6)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Golden, CO, 
USA.
(7)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Golden, CO, 
USA; Renewable and Sustainable Energy Institute (RASEI), University of Colorado 
Boulder, USA; Somalogic, Inc., Boulder, CO, USA.
(8)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Golden, CO, 
USA; Renewable and Sustainable Energy Institute (RASEI), University of Colorado 
Boulder, USA.
(9)Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK. Electronic address: 
Samantha.bryan@nottingham.ac.uk.

Ethylene is a small hydrocarbon gas widely used in the chemical industry. Annual 
worldwide production currently exceeds 150 million tons, producing considerable 
amounts of CO2 contributing to climate change. The need for a sustainable 
alternative is therefore imperative. Ethylene is natively produced by several 
different microorganisms, including Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola via a 
process catalyzed by the ethylene-forming enzyme (EFE), subsequent heterologous 
expression of EFE has led to ethylene production in non-native bacterial hosts 
including Escherichia coli and cyanobacteria. However, solubility of EFE and 
substrate availability remain rate-limiting steps in biological ethylene 
production. We employed a combination of genome-scale metabolic modelling, 
continuous fermentation, and protein evolution to enable the accelerated 
development of a high efficiency ethylene producing E. coli strain, yielding a 
49-fold increase in production, the most significant improvement reported to 
date. Furthermore, we have clearly demonstrated that this increased yield 
resulted from metabolic adaptations that were uniquely linked to EFE (wild type 
versus mutant). Our findings provide a novel solution to deregulate metabolic 
bottlenecks in key pathways, which can be readily applied to address other 
engineering challenges.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2021.07.001
PMID: 34245888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Sep;101:91-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.06.006. Epub 2014 
Jun 17.

A stress-responsive Escherichia coli protein, CysQ is a highly effective 
solubility enhancer for aggregation-prone heterologous proteins.

Lee JH(1), Lee JY(1), Song JA(2), Han KY(3), Lee DS(4), Lee J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Korea University, Anam-Ro 145, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea.
(2)SolGent Co., Ltd. Plant & Biomedical Research Institute, 43-10, Techno 5-Ro, 
Yuseong-Gu, Daejeon 305-504, South Korea.
(3)Samsung Biomedical Research Institute, Samsung Advanced Institute of 
Technology, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., San 14-1, Nongseo-Dong, Giheung-Gu, 
Yongin-Si, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Republic 
of Korea.
(5)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Korea University, Anam-Ro 145, Seoul 136-713, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: leejw@korea.ac.kr.

When used as an N-terminal fusion expression partner, the Escherichia coli 
stress-responsive protein, CysQ dramatically increased the cytoplasmic 
solubility of various aggregation-prone heterologous proteins: Pseudomonas 
putida cutinase (CUT), human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (hG-CSF), 
human ferritin light chain (hFTN-L), arginine deiminase (ADI), human 
interleukin-2 (IL2), human activation induced cytidine deaminase (AID), and 
deletion mutant of human glutamate decarboxylase (GAD448-585). As compared with 
well-known fusion tags such as glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and 
maltose-binding protein (MBP), the performance of CysQ as solubility enhancer 
was evidently better than GST and was similar to or better than MBP for the 
seven heterologous proteins above. This is likely due to the intrinsic ability 
of CysQ to form its native conformation, probably promoting the binding of 
molecular chaperones during the folding of CysQ-fusion protein. When used as a 
substrate, p-nitrophenyl butyrate (PNB) was successfully hydrolyzed to 
p-nitrophenol by CysQ-CUT fusion mutant. Even after CysQ was removed, the 
solubility of hFTN-L and hG-CSF, the secondary structure of hG-CSF, and 
self-assembly activity of hFTN-L were successfully maintained. Conclusively, it 
seems that CysQ is a highly effective solubility enhancer and fusion expression 
partner for the production of a variety of bio-active recombinant proteins.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.06.006
PMID: 24945073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Apr;24(2):420-4.

[Construction of recombinant adenovirus vector carrying human TIMP-1 cDNA and 
its expression in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Xia D(1), Yan L, Xu L, Tong Y, Zuo H, Zhao L.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, West China Hospital of Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

The full-length cDNA of hTIMP-1 was obtained from a surgical patient with HCC by 
the method of RT-PCR. Then it was cloned into the adenoviral shuttle plasmid 
pAdTrack-CMV, and subsequently cotransformed into competent BJ5183 cells with 
the adenoviral backbone plasmid pAdEasy-1. Thereupon, a recombinant adenoviral 
plasmid containing full-length cDNA of hTIMP-1 was generated by homologous 
recombination in E. coli. The adenoviruses (AdhTIMP-1) were packaged and 
amplified in adenoviral packaging cells HEK 293. Then the viral titer was 
checked by green fluorescent protein (GFP), and the expression of hTIMP-1 was 
detected by the techniques of Western blot and RT-PCR. The recombinant 
adenovirus vector carrying human TIMP-1 was successfully constructed and 
expressed in vitro and may pave the way for further application in liver gene 
therapy.

PMID: 17591273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2013 Nov 6;3:72. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2013.00072. 
eCollection 2013.

Engineering production of functional scFv antibody in E. coli by co-expressing 
the molecule chaperone Skp.

Wang R(1), Xiang S, Feng Y, Srinivas S, Zhang Y, Lin M, Wang S.

Author information:
(1)The Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Biopesticide and Chemical 
Biology, College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University 
Fuzhou, China.

Single-chain variable fragment (scFv) is a class of engineered antibodies 
generated by the fusion of the heavy (VH) and light chains (VL) of 
immunoglobulins through a short polypeptide linker. ScFv play a critical role in 
therapy and diagnosis of human diseases, and may in fact also be developed into 
a potential diagnostic and/or therapeutic agent. However, the fact that current 
scFv antibodies have poor stability, low solubility, and affinity, seriously 
limits their diagnostic and clinical implication. Here we have developed four 
different expression vectors, and evaluated their abilities to express a soluble 
scFv protein. The solubility and binding activity of the purified proteins were 
determined using both SDS-PAGE and ELISA. Amongst the four purified proteins, 
the Skp co-expressed scFv showed the highest solubility, and the binding 
activity to antigen TLH was 3-4 fold higher than the other three purified scFv. 
In fact, this scFv is specific for TLH and does not cross-react with other 
TLH-associated proteins and could be used to detect TLH directly in real 
samples. These results suggest that the pACYC-Duet-skp co-expression vector 
might be a useful tool for the production of soluble and functional scFv 
antibody.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2013.00072
PMCID: PMC3818579
PMID: 24224158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Biotechnol. 2005 Oct 17;120(1):2-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2005.04.028. Epub 
2005 Jul 14.

Fusion tags and chaperone co-expression modulate both the solubility and the 
inclusion body features of the recombinant CLIPB14 serine protease.

Schrödel A(1), Volz J, de Marco A.

Author information:
(1)EMBL, Meyerhofstr. 1, D-69117 Heidelberg, Germany.

Chaperone co-expression and the fusion to different tags were used to modify the 
aggregation pattern of the putative serine protease CLIPB14 precipitated in 
Escherichia coli inclusion bodies. A set of common tags used in expression 
vectors has been selected, as well as two bacterial strains over-expressing the 
chaperones GroELS and ibpA/B, respectively. The presence of the fused tags 
resulted in an improved solubility of CLIPB14 but also in a higher presence of 
contaminants in the inclusion bodies, while chaperone co-expression promoted the 
binding of all the chaperone machinery involved into the disaggregation to the 
CLIPB14. Furthermore, each tag influenced in a specific manner the 
re-aggregation of the denatured CLIPB14 constructs during urea dilution and the 
preliminary trials indicated that the CLIPB14 fusions with higher homogeneity 
and lower re-aggregation rate were the optimal candidates for refolding assays. 
In conclusion, it is possible to tune the quality of the inclusion bodies by 
choosing the suitable combination of tag and chaperone co-expression that 
minimize the non-productive side reactions during refolding.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2005.04.028
PMID: 16023240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 May;29(5):511-4.

[The expression and purification of TRPM2 protein in E.coli and preparation of 
its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun H(1), Luo H, Wang N, Ou X, Wen X, Jiang Y, Mei Z.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Functional Proteomics of Guangdong Province, Department of 
Pathophysiology, Southern Medical University, China. shw1552128@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To purify the prokaryotically expressed GST-TRPM2N fusion protein and 
prepare specific polyclonal antibody against human transient receptor potential 
melastatin 2(TRPM2) protein.
METHODS: The DNA fragment encoding evolutionarily conserved N-terminus (1-334 
amino acids) of TRPM2 was amplified by PCR. The amplicon was then subcloned into 
prokaryotic expression plasmid pGEX-4T-3 and the recombinant plasmid was 
transformed into BL21 (DE3) cells. The expression of GST-TRPM2N fusion protein 
with a molecular weight about 70 000 Da was induced with 1 mmol/L IPTG and 
purified by GST affinity chromatography. The purified protein was mixed with 
complete Freund's adjuvant and used to immunize the New Zealand white rabbits 
with classical 4-injection protocol to generate specific anti-TRPM2 polyclonal 
antibody. The specificity and titer of the anti-TRPM2 antibody was analyzed by 
Western blotting.
RESULTS: The cDNA fragment encoding N-terminus of human TRPM2 was amplified by 
PCR and directionally subcloned into pGEX-4T3 plasmid. Under the induction of 
IPTG, we observed the expression of GST-TRPM2N fusion protein. Polyclonal 
antibody against human TRPM2 protein was successfully prepared in the rabbits 
immunized with the purified GST-TRPM2N fusion protein. And the preliminary 
analysis showed that the anti-TRPM2 antibody could specifically identify 
transiently expressed TRPM2-EE in HEK293 cells.
CONCLUSION: The specific polyclonal antibody against human TRPM2 protein has 
been successfully prepared, which facilitates our future research on the 
function of TRPM2 channel.

PMID: 23643273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Metab Eng. 2016 May;35:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.01.004. Epub 2016 Jan 14.

Biosynthesis of poly(glycolate-co-lactate-co-3-hydroxybutyrate) from glucose by 
metabolically engineered Escherichia coli.

Li ZJ(1), Qiao K(2), Shi W(2), Pereira B(2), Zhang H(2), Olsen BD(2), 
Stephanopoulos G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, United States; Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, 
College of Life Science and Technology, Beijing University of Chemical 
Technology, Beijing 100029, China.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, United States.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, United States. Electronic address: gregstep@mit.edu.

Metabolically engineered Escherichia coli strains were constructed to 
effectively produce novel glycolate-containing biopolymers from glucose. First, 
the glyoxylate bypass pathway and glyoxylate reductase were engineered such as 
to generate glycolate. Second, glycolate and lactate were activated by the 
Megasphaera elsdenii propionyl-CoA transferase to synthesize glycolyl-CoA and 
lactyl-CoA, respectively. Third, β-ketothiolase and acetoacetyl-CoA reductase 
from Ralstonia eutropha were introduced to synthesize 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA from 
acetyl-CoA. At last, the Ser325Thr/Gln481Lys mutant of polyhydroxyalkanoate 
(PHA) synthase from Pseudomonas sp. 61-3 was over-expressed to polymerize 
glycolyl-CoA, lactyl-CoA and 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA to produce 
poly(glycolate-co-lactate-co-3-hydroxybutyrate). The recombinant E. coli was 
able to accumulate the novel terpolymer with a titer of 3.90g/l in shake flask 
cultures. The structure of the resulting polymer was chemically characterized by 
proton NMR analysis. Assessment of thermal and mechanical properties 
demonstrated that the produced terpolymer possessed decreased crystallinity and 
improved toughness, in comparison to poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) homopolymer. This 
is the first study reporting efficient microbial production of 
poly(glycolate-co-lactate-co-3-hydroxybutyrate) from glucose.

Copyright © 2016 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.01.004
PMID: 26778413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Iran J Biotechnol. 2020 Oct 1;18(4):e2556. doi: 10.30498/IJB.2020.2556. 
eCollection 2020 Oct.

Investigation of Supercharging as A Strategy to Enhance the Solubility and 
Plasminogen Cleavage Activity of Reteplase.

Seyedhosseini Ghaheh H(1), Ganjalikhany MR(2), Yaghmaei P(1), Pourfarzam M(3), 
Mir Mohammad Sadeghi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Reteplase, the recombinant form of tissue plasminogen activator, is 
a thrombolytic drug with outstanding characteristics, while demonstrating 
limited solubility and reduced plasminogen activation. Previously, we in silico 
designed a variant of Reteplase with positively supercharged surface, which 
showed promising stability, solubility and activity. This study was devoted to 
evaluation of the utility of supercharging technique for enhancing these 
characteristics in Reteplase.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that reinforced surface charge of a 
rationally-designed Reteplase variant will not compromise its stability, will 
increase its solubility, and will enhance its plasminogen cleavage activity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Supercharged Reteplase coding sequence was cloned in 
pDest527 vector and expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3). The expressed protein was 
extracted by cell disruption. Inclusion bodies were solubilized using guanidine 
hydrochloride, followed by dialysis for protein refolding. After confirmation 
with SDS-PAGE and western blotting, extracted proteins were assayed for 
solubility and tested for bioactivity.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE and western blot analysis confirmed the successful expression 
of Reteplase. Western blot experiments showed most of Reteplase expressed in the 
insoluble form. Plasminogen cleavage assay showed significantly higher activity 
of the supercharged variant than the wild type protein (P < 0.001). The 
stability of the supercharged variant was also comparable to the wild type.
CONCLUSION: Our findings, i.e. the contribution of the surface supercharging 
technique to retained stability, enhanced plasminogen cleavage activity, while 
inefficiently changed solubility of Reteplase, contain implications for future 
designs of soluble variants of this fibrinolytic protein drug.

Copyright: © 2020 The Author(s); Published by Iranian Journal of Biotechnology.

DOI: 10.30498/IJB.2020.2556
PMCID: PMC8148640
PMID: 34056023


881. Sci Rep. 2019 Aug 9;9(1):11576. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-48091-7.

Construction of a synthetic pathway for the production of 1,3-propanediol from 
glucose.

Frazão CJR(1), Trichez D(1), Serrano-Bataille H(1), Dagkesamanskaia A(1), Topham 
CM(2), Walther T(1)(3)(4), François JM(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Toulouse Biotechnology Institute (TBI), Université de Toulouse, CNRS, INRA, 
INSA, 135 Avenue de Rangueil, F-31077, Toulouse, France.
(2)Molecular Forces Consulting, 40 rue Boyssonne, F-31400, Toulouse, France.
(3)TWB, 3 Rue des Satellites, Canal Biotech Building 2, F-31400, Toulouse, 
France.
(4)TU Dresden, Institute of Natural Materials Technology, 01062, Dresden, 
Germany.
(5)Toulouse Biotechnology Institute (TBI), Université de Toulouse, CNRS, INRA, 
INSA, 135 Avenue de Rangueil, F-31077, Toulouse, France. 
fran_jm@insa-toulouse.fr.
(6)TWB, 3 Rue des Satellites, Canal Biotech Building 2, F-31400, Toulouse, 
France. fran_jm@insa-toulouse.fr.

In this work, we describe the construction of a synthetic metabolic pathway 
enabling direct biosynthesis of 1,3-propanediol (PDO) from glucose via the Krebs 
cycle intermediate malate. This non-natural pathway extends a previously 
published synthetic pathway for the synthesis of (L)-2,4-dihydroxybutyrate 
(L-DHB) from malate by three additional reaction steps catalyzed respectively, 
by a DHB dehydrogenase, a 2-keto-4-hydroxybutyrate (OHB) dehydrogenase and a PDO 
oxidoreductase. Screening and structure-guided protein engineering provided a 
(L)-DHB dehydrogenase from the membrane-associated (L)-lactate dehydrogenase of 
E. coli and OHB decarboxylase variants derived from the branched-chain keto-acid 
decarboxylase encoded by kdcA from Lactococcus lactis or pyruvate decarboxylase 
from Zymomonas mobilis. The simultaneous overexpression of the genes encoding 
these enzymes together with the endogenous ydhD-encoded aldehyde reductase 
enabled PDO biosynthesis from (L)-DHB. While the simultaneous expression of the 
six enzymatic activities in a single engineered E. coli strain resulted in a low 
production of 0.1 mM PDO from 110 mM glucose, a 40-fold increased PDO titer was 
obtained by co-cultivation of an E. coli strain expressing the malate-DHB 
pathway with another strain harboring the DHB-to-PDO pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-48091-7
PMCID: PMC6689062
PMID: 31399628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


882. J Biomed Biotechnol. 2009;2009:729197. doi: 10.1155/2009/729197.

Production of polyclonal antibody against interleukin-33 and assessment of its 
distribution in murine liver and lung.

Liu X(1), Wu Y, Li M, Chen S, Zhou Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Inflammation and Immune Diseases, Shantou University Medical 
College, Shantou 515041, China.

Interleukin (IL)-33 is the latest member of IL-1 cytokine family. In this study, 
the cloning, expression, purification, and polyclonal antibody preparation of 
mouse IL-33 were described. The coding region of IL-33 mature protein was cloned 
into the prokaryotic expression vector pET-44. The recombinant protein, IL-33 
containing a hexahistidine tag in the C-terminal, was expressed in Escherichia 
coli. The expressed soluble protein was purified by immobilized metal-ion 
affinity chromatography using Ni2+-nitrilotriacetic acid agarose. The rabbits 
were immunized with the purified recombinant protein. The obtained antiserum was 
precipitated by saturated ammonium sulfate and then purified by Protein A 
affinity chromatography. The sensitivity and specificity of the antibodies were 
evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunohistochemistry. The 
high titer (1 : 32000) polyclonal antibodies with high specificity were obtained 
by immunizing rabbits with the purified recombinant protein. Significant 
expression of IL-33 was seen in mouse liver and lung tissues determined with the 
anti-IL-33. The production of the polyclonal antibody against IL-33 provides a 
good tool for studying the biofunctions of IL-33.

DOI: 10.1155/2009/729197
PMCID: PMC2789532
PMID: 20011663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 Mar 15;8(3):587-595. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00003. Epub 
2019 Mar 4.

Metabolic Engineering of a Homoserine-Derived Non-Natural Pathway for the De 
Novo Production of 1,3-Propanediol from Glucose.

Zhong W(1), Zhang Y(1), Wu W(1), Liu D(1)(2)(3), Chen Z(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biocatalysis (Ministry of Education), Department 
of Chemical Engineering , Tsinghua University , Beijing 100084 , China.
(2)Tsinghua Innovation Center in Dongguan , Dongguan 523808 , China.
(3)Center for Synthetic and Systems Biology , Tsinghua University , Beijing 
100084 , China.

Engineering a homoserine-derived non-natural pathway allows heterologous 
production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) from glucose without adding expensive 
vitamin B12. Due to the lack of efficient enzymes to catalyze the deamination of 
homoserine and the decarboxylation of 4-hydroxy-2-ketobutyrate, the previously 
engineered strain can only produce 51.5 mg/L 1,3-PDO using homoserine and 
glucose as cosubstrates. In this study, we systematically screened the enzymes 
from different protein families to catalyze the two corresponding reactions and 
further optimized the selected enzymes by protein engineering. Together with the 
improvement of homoserine supply by systematic metabolic engineering, an 
engineered Escherichia coli strain with an optimal combination of aspartate 
transaminase ( aspC) from E. coli, pyruvate decarboxylase ( pdc) from Zymomonas 
mobiliz, and alcohol dehydrogenase yqhD from E. coli can produce 0.32 g/L 
1,3-PDO from glucose in shake flask cultivation. The titer of 1,3-PDO was 
further increased to 0.49 g/L or 0.63 g/L by introducing a point mutation of 
I472A into pdc gene or constructing a fusion protein between aspC and pdc. This 
study lays the basis for developing a potential process for 1,3-PDO production 
from sugars without using expensive coenzyme B12.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00003
PMID: 30802034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. World J Gastroenterol. 2003 Jul;9(7):1529-36. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v9.i7.1529.

Construction of hpaA gene from a clinical isolate of Helicobacter pylori and 
identification of fusion protein.

Mao YF(1), Yan J, Li LW, Li SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, College of Medical 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310031, Zhejiang Province, China.

AIM: To clone hpaA gene from a clinical strain of Helicobacter pylori and to 
construct the expression vector of the gene and to identify immunity of the 
fusion protein.
METHODS: The hpaA gene from a clinical isolate Y06 of H.pylori was amplified by 
high fidelity PCR. The nucleotide sequence of the target DNA amplification 
fragment was sequenced after T-A cloning. The recombinant expression vector 
inserted with hpaA gene was constructed. The expression of HpaA fusion protein 
in E.coli BL21DE3 induced by IPTG at different dosages was examined by SDS-PAGE. 
Western blot with commercial antibody against whole cell of H.pylori as well as 
immunodiffusion assay with self-prepared rabbit antiserum against HpaA fusion 
protein were applied to determine immunity of the fusion protein. ELISA was used 
to detect the antibody against HpaA in sera of 125 patients infected with 
H.pylori and to examine HpaA expression of 109 clinical isolates of H.pylori.
RESULTS: In comparison with the reported corresponding sequences, the homologies 
of nucleotide and putative amino acid sequences of the cloned hpaA gene were 
from 94.25-97.32 % and 95.38-98.46 %, respectively. The output of HpaA fusion 
protein in its expression system of pET32a-hpaA-BL21DE3 was approximately 40 % 
of the total bacterial proteins. HpaA fusion protein was able to combine with 
the commercial antibody against whole cell of H.pylori and to induce rabbit 
producing specific antiserum with 1:4 immunodiffusion titer after the animal was 
immunized with the fusion protein. 81.6 % of the serum samples from 125 patients 
infected with H.pylori (102/125) were positive for HpaA antibody and all of the 
tested isolates of H.pylori (109/109) were detectable for HpaA.
CONCLUSION: A prokaryotic expression system with high efficiency of H.pylori 
hpaA gene was successfully established. The HpaA expressing fusion protein 
showed satisfactory immunoreactivity and antigenicity. High frequencies of HpaA 
expression in different H.pylori clinical strains and specific antibody 
production in H.pylori infected patients indicate that HpaA is an excellent and 
ideal antigen for developing H.pylori vaccine.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v9.i7.1529
PMCID: PMC4615498
PMID: 12854157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Jan;21(1):65-8.

[Comparison of polyclonal anti-sera against extracellular domain of hepatoma 
associated antigen HAb18G/CD147 prepared by different immunization schemes].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang SH(1), Yang XM, Xing JL, Chen ZN.

Author information:
(1)Cell Engineering Research Center, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 
710032, China.

AIM: To compare characteristics of polyclonal anti-sera against extracellular 
domain of hepatoma-associated antigen HAb18G/CD147(HAb18GEF) generated by 
different immunization schemes.
METHODS: BALB/c mice were immunized with GST-HAb18GEF fusion protein expressed 
in E.coli (routine immunization method), recombinant eukaryotic expression 
plasmid pcDNA3/HAb18G (intramuscular injection) and pcDNA3/HAb18G plasmid 
followed by human hepatoma cells booster (DNA-cell booster), respectively. The 
titers and Ig subclasses of polyclonal anti-sera against denatured and natural 
HAb18GEF were detected by indirect ELISA and cell ELISA, respectively. The 
specific binding of polyclonal anti-sera prepared by different immunization 
schemes to denatured HAb18GEF was analyzed by Western blot. The specific binding 
of polyclonal anti-sera produced by DNA-cell booster immunization to natural 
HAb18G antigen on hepatoma cells was detected by immunofluorescence staining.
RESULTS: GST-HAb18GEF immunization could induce polycolonal antibody IgG1 with 
higher titer mainly against denatured or linear epitopes on HAb18GEF. Antibody 
induced by pcDNA3/HAb18G intramuscular immunization was IgG2a with lower titer 
against natural epitopes on HAb18GEF. DNA-cell booster immunization could induce 
generation of polycolonal antibody IgG2a and IgG1 of moderate titers against the 
native epitopes on HAb18G.
CONCLUSION: The polycolonal sera with different titers against different 
epitopes on HAb18GEF can be induced by different immunization schemes.

PMID: 15629087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Nov;103(21-22):8785-8797. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-019-10103-x. Epub 2019 Sep 12.

Production of sesterterpene ophiobolin by a bifunctional terpene synthase in 
Escherichia coli.

Yuan W(1), Lv S(1), Chen L(1), Zhao Y(1), Deng Z(1), Hong K(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Combinatorial Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery, Ministry of 
Education, Wuhan University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, 430071, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Combinatorial Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery, Ministry of 
Education, Wuhan University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, 430071, People's Republic of China. kuihong31@whu.edu.cn.

Ophiobolins (ophs) are characteristic 5-8-5 tricyclic sesterterpenes with 
potential pharmaceutical activities. Ophiobolin synthase is a bifunctional 
terpene synthase (BTS) that catalyzes both chain elongation and cyclization. In 
Aspergillus ustus 094102, ophiobolin accumulation was involved with not only 
ophiobolin synthase C25 (Au8003) but also other four gene clusters containing 
C15 (Au6298), C20 (Au13192 and Au11565), and C30 (Au3446) terpene synthases. In 
this report, overexpression of codon-optimized gene Au8003 resulted in a 
detectable production of oph F in E. coli. In subsequent modulation of culture 
conditions, pentose arabinose allowed a more than 10-fold improvement of 
production than that of glycerol. To achieve a higher titer, the whole 
mevalonate pathway and an additional copy of isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase 
gene were assembled, leading to approximately 24-fold and 60-fold yield 
increases, respectively. The above four terpene synthase genes related to 
ophiobolin production in strain 094102 were individually or combinatorially 
overexpressed with Au8003 to mimic the original fungal biosynthesis. The 
biosynthesis of oph scaffold was increased by short-chain terpene synthases (C15 
and C20), among which the C15 synthase gene contributed the highest yield of 
82.76 mg/L at 96 h; the multi-gene combinatorial results suggested that 
cyclization might be a rate-limiting step. Further protein engineering including 
fusion tags and phylogenetically based mutations on the rate-limiting 
cyclization part of Au8003 enabled a further yield improvement (> 150 mg/L at 96 
h) in shake flasks. These multiple approaches for sesterterpene skeleton 
production using engineered E. coli may be applicable for cost-effective, 
high-yield productions of ophiobolins and other compounds synthesized by BTSs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-10103-x
PMID: 31515597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2009 Oct;234(10):1220-9. doi: 10.3181/0812-RM-371. Epub 
2009 Jul 13.

Generation of expression clone set for functional proteomics of human gastric 
and liver cancers.

Oh NS(1), Park JS, Jeon YJ, Oh JH, Jeong SY, Yang JO, Park YW, Yoo HS, Kim NS.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Genomics, Genome Research Center, KRIBB, Daejeon 305-806, 
Korea.

Two thousand sixty-eight multi-purpose expression clones for the 326 candidate 
genes related to gastric or liver cancers were constructed using the Gateway 
system. These clones can be expressed as His, Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) or 
Enhanced version of the green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fusion proteins in E. 
coli, insect cells or mammalian cells. For the 246 E. coli expression clones, 
the GST fusion proteins had greater expression efficiency and solubility than 
the His fusion proteins. Approximately 20% of the expressed proteins had 
unexpected molecular weights. A detailed sequence analysis of these clones 
revealed frameshift mutations resulting from insertion, deletion or substitution 
of nucleotides. The results indicate that these changes in the candidate genes 
may affect the occurrence of gastric or liver cancers. In addition, when 105 
proteins, which were expressed in E. coli at very low or undetectable levels, 
were expressed in insect cells, 76% of the proteins were expressed very well and 
most were soluble. We also found that most of the 30 proteins prepared using 
EGFP mammalian expression clones were localized to cellular compartments 
expected by Gene ontology (GO) and this localization was unaffected if the 
EGFP-fusion was at the N-terminal or C-terminal region of the protein. Antibody 
production and subcellular localization analysis of the candidate genes as well 
as a screen of genes involved in carcinogenesis pathways are currently in 
progress using these expression clones. These studies provide a valuable 
resource for developing a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of 
carcinogenesis in both gastric and liver cancer and would be very helpful in 
diagnosis and therapeutic predictions.

DOI: 10.3181/0812-RM-371
PMID: 19596826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Biotechnol J. 2016 Feb;11(2):212-8. doi: 10.1002/biot.201500030. Epub 2015 Sep 
10.

Cell-free protein synthesis enables high yielding synthesis of an active 
multicopper oxidase.

Li J(1)(2)(3)(4), Lawton TJ(5), Kostecki JS(6), Nisthal A(6), Fang J(5), Mayo 
SL(6), Rosenzweig AC(3)(5)(7), Jewett MC(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, IL, USA.
(2)Chemistry of Life Processes Institute, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 
USA.
(3)Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Simpson Querrey Institute for BioNanotechnology in Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 
USA.
(6)Division of Biological Sciences, California Institute of Technology, 
Pasadena, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(8)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, IL, USA. m-jewett@northwestern.edu.
(9)Chemistry of Life Processes Institute, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 
USA. m-jewett@northwestern.edu.
(10)Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, USA. m-jewett@northwestern.edu.
(11)Simpson Querrey Institute for BioNanotechnology in Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA. m-jewett@northwestern.edu.

Multicopper oxidases (MCOs) are broadly distributed in all kingdoms of life and 
perform a variety of important oxidative reactions. These enzymes have potential 
biotechnological applications; however, the applications are impeded by low 
expression yields in traditional recombinant hosts, solubility issues, and poor 
copper cofactor assembly. As an alternative to traditional recombinant protein 
expression, we show the ability to use cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) to 
produce complex MCO proteins with high soluble titers. Specifically, we report 
the production of MCOs in an Escherichia coli-based cell-free 
transcription-translation system. Total yields as high as 1.2 mg mL(-1) were 
observed after a 20-h batch reaction. More than 95% of the protein was soluble 
and activity was obtained by simple post-CFPS addition of copper ions in the 
form of CuSO4 . Scale-up reactions were achieved from 15 to 100 µL without a 
decrease in productivity and solubility. CFPS titers were higher than in vivo 
expression titers and more soluble, avoiding the formation of inclusion bodies. 
Our work extends the utility of the cell-free platform to the production of 
active proteins containing copper cofactors and demonstrates a simple method for 
producing MCOs.

Copyright © 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201500030
PMID: 26356243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Jul;97(13):5793-800. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-012-4457-6. Epub 2012 Oct 13.

Overproduction, purification, and characterization of extracellular lipoxygenase 
of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Escherichia coli.

Lu X(1), Zhang J, Liu S, Zhang D, Xu Z, Wu J, Li J, Du G, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi 214122, China.

Lipoxygenase (LOX; EC 1.13.11.12,) is an enzyme that is widely used in food 
industry to improve aroma, rheological, or baking properties of foods. In this 
study, we described the expression and characterization of Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa LOX in Escherichia coli. The recombinant LOX was successfully 
expressed and secreted by E. coli using its endogenous signal peptide. When 
induced with 1 mM isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (final concentration) at 
20 °C for 47 h, the titer of the recombinant enzyme reached 3.89 U/mL. In order 
to characterize the catalytic properties, the recombinant LOX was purified to 
homogeneity on Q High Performance and Mono Q5/50GL sequentially. The molecular 
weight of the LOX was estimated as 70 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate 
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The Km and Vmax of the recombinant enzyme 
were 48.9 μM and 0.226 μmol/min, respectively. The purified enzyme exhibited a 
maximum activity at 25 °C and pH 7.5. High-performance liquid chromatography 
analysis of the linoleic acid hydroperoxides produced by recombinant LOX 
revealed that the LOX from P. aeruginosa falls into linoleic acid 13(S)-LOX. To 
the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the overexpression of 
extracellular LOX in microorganisms, and the achieved LOX yield is the highest 
ever reported.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-012-4457-6
PMID: 23064455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Feb;178:105777. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105777. Epub 
2020 Oct 15.

Bioconversion of recombinantly produced precursor peptide pqqA into 
pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) using a cell-free in vitro system.

Wang G(1), Zhou Y(1), Ma K(1), Zhang F(1), Ye J(1), Zhong G(1), Yang X(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotransformation and Biocatalysis, School of Food and 
Biological Engineering, Zhengzhou University of Light Industry, Zhengzhou, 
Henan, 450000, People's Republic of China; School of Food and 
Bioengineering/Collaborative Innovation Center for Production and Safety, 
Zhengzhou University of Light Industry, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Laboratory of Biotransformation and Biocatalysis, School of Food and 
Biological Engineering, Zhengzhou University of Light Industry, Zhengzhou, 
Henan, 450000, People's Republic of China; School of Food and 
Bioengineering/Collaborative Innovation Center for Production and Safety, 
Zhengzhou University of Light Industry, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, People's 
Republic of China. Electronic address: yangxuepeng@zzuli.edu.cn.

Pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) has been recognized as the third class of redox 
cofactors in addition to the well-known nicotinamides (NAD(P)+) and flavins 
(FAD, FMN). It plays important physiological roles in various organisms and has 
strong antioxidant properties. The biosynthetic pathway of PQQ involves a gene 
cluster composed of 4-7 genes, named pqqA-G, among which pqqA is a key gene for 
PQQ synthesis, encoding the precursor peptide PqqA. To produce recombinant PqqA 
in E. coli, fusion tags were used to increase the stability and solubility of 
the peptide, as well simplify the scale-up of the fermentation process. In this 
paper, pqqA from Gluconobacter oxydans 621H was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) 
as a fusion protein with SUMO and purified using a hexahistidine (His6) tag. The 
SUMO fusion protein and His6 tag were specifically recognized and cleaved by the 
SUMO specific ULP protease, and immobilized-metal affinity chromatography was 
used to obtain high-purity precursor peptide PqqA. Expression and purification 
of target proteins was confirmed by Tricine-SDS-PAGE. Finally, the synthesis of 
PQQ in a cell-free enzymatic reaction in vitro was confirmed by LC-MS.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105777
PMID: 33069826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Biotechnol Lett. 2015 Apr;37(4):799-806. doi: 10.1007/s10529-014-1753-5. Epub 
2014 Dec 17.

Enhanced cadaverine production from L-lysine using recombinant Escherichia coli 
co-overexpressing CadA and CadB.

Ma W(1), Cao W, Zhang H, Chen K, Li Y, Ouyang P.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, College of 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
211816, People's Republic of China, will1015@hotmail.com.

The effect of fusing the PelB signal sequence to lysine/cadaverine antiporter 
(CadB) on the bioconversion of L-lysine to cadaverine was investigated. To 
construct a whole-cell biocatalyst for cadaverine production, four expression 
plasmids were constructed for the co-expression of lysine decarboxylase (CadA) 
and lysine/cadaverine antiporter (CadB) in Escherichia coli. Expressing CadB 
with the PelB signal sequence increased cadaverine production by 12%, and the 
optimal expression plasmid, pETDuet-pelB-CadB-CadA, contained two T7 
promoter-controlled genes, CadA and the PelB-CadB fusion protein. Based on 
pETDuet-pelB-CadB-CadA, a whole-cell system for the bioconversion of L-lysine to 
cadaverine was constructed, and three strategies for L-lysine feeding were 
evaluated to eliminate the substrate inhibition problem. A cadaverine titer of 
221 g l(-1) with a molar yield of 92% from lysine was obtained.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-014-1753-5
PMID: 25515797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Nov;104(22):9671-9682. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-020-10921-4. Epub 2020 Oct 2.

SUMO-fusion and autoinduction-based combinatorial approach for enhanced 
production of bioactive human interleukin-24 in Escherichia coli.

Tahir S(1), Iqbal MM(1), Akhtar MW(2), Wang Q(3), Sun T(4), Sadaf S(5).

Author information:
(1)Biopharmaceuticals and Biomarkers Discovery Lab, Institute of Biochemistry 
and Biotechnology, University of the Punjab, Lahore, 54590, Pakistan.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of the Punjab, Lahore, 54590, 
Pakistan.
(3)Department of Interventional Radiology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 197 Rui Jin Er Road, Shanghai, People's Republic 
of China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Smart Drug Delivery (Ministry of Education), State Key 
Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology and MOE Frontiers Center for Brain Science, 
Institutes of Brain Science, Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, 
Research Center on Aging and Medicine, Fudan University, 826 Zhangheng Road, 
Shanghai, 201203, People's Republic of China.
(5)Biopharmaceuticals and Biomarkers Discovery Lab, Institute of Biochemistry 
and Biotechnology, University of the Punjab, Lahore, 54590, Pakistan. 
saima.ibb@pu.edu.pk.

High-level production of recombinant human interleukin-24 (IL-24), a 
multifunctional immunomodulatory cytokine, has been challenging due primarily to 
its aggregation as inclusion bodies in the bacterial host while persistent 
poor-expression in the insect/mammalian expression systems. The present study 
presents a robust, vector-host combination (pE-SUMO-IL24), auto-inducible medium 
(YNG/M9NG), and a simple purification scheme for soluble, bioactive, and 
cost-effective production of native-like IL-24 (nIL-24) in Escherichia coli. The 
final protein yield, following a three-step purification scheme (IMAC, SEC, 
dialysis), was 98 mg/L in shake-flask culture (with scale-up potential), which 
was several folds higher than reported earlier. In vitro cytotoxicity assays 
with HeLa and HCT116 cancer cell lines (performed using different concentrations 
of nIL-24) and the fluorescence activated cell sorting analysis (FACS) revealed 
a dose- and concentration-dependent increase in the population of pro-apoptotic 
cells with concomitant, statistically significant drop in the number of cells 
existent at Go/G1-, S-, and G2/M-phases (P < 0.002). The bioactive nIL-24, 
developed through this study, holds promise for use in further functional 
characterizations/applications. KEY POINTS: • Yeast SUMO fusion partner at 
N-terminus for improved solubility of an otherwise insoluble IL-24 in E. coli. • 
Enhanced cell densities with concomitant several-fold increase in protein yield 
by lactose-inducible media. • Improved inhibition of cervical and colorectal 
carcinomas by native-like nIL-24 compared with Met-containing IL. • Heterologous 
nIL-24 may enable better understanding of the functional intricacies linked up 
with its unique cancer-specific features. Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10921-4
PMID: 33005978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Apr;31(4):544-8.

[Preparation and identification of the polyclonal antibody against human 
insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao W(1), Xu Q(2), Yang Y(3), Tong J(4), Zhang J(3), Li Y(3), Shao Z(5), Li 
L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing 
100029, China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55902, USA.
(3)Department of Immunology, Health Science Center, Peking University, Beijing 
100191, China.
(4)Liver Failure Treatment and Research Center, No. 302 Hospital of PLA, Beijing 
100039, China.
(5)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, No. 306 Hospital of PLA, Beijing 
100101, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct the prokaryotic expression vector of insulin-like growth 
factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3), express and purify IGF2BP3 protein in 
E.coli, and prepare the polyclonal antibody against IGF2BP3.
METHODS: The full open reading frame (ORF) of human IGF2BP3 was amplified by 
PCR, subcloned into pET-28a vector, and transformed into E.coli BL21(DE3), in 
which expression of the His-tagged IGF2BP3 protein was induced by IPTG. This 
protein was subsequently purified by Ni-NTA purification system, refolded by 
removal of urea from the solution. BALB/c mice were immunized with the purified 
IGF2BP3 protein to produce polyclonal antibody against IGF2BP3. The resulting 
anti-sera were further characterized by ELISA, Western blotting and 
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: IGF2BP3 gene we amplified was consistent with the sequence reported by 
GenBank. Prokaryotic expression vector pET-28a-IGF2BP3 was constructed. 
His-tagged IGF2BP3 protein was successfully expressed in BL21 (DE3) with 
relative molecular mass (Mr) about 70 000 after IPTG induction. After purified 
by Ni-NTA resin, the purity of the protein reached above 90%. After 
immunization, the titer of the IGF2BP3 mouse anti-serum was over 1:50 000 as 
determined by ELISA. Further, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry showed 
that the IGF2BP3 antibody could specifically recognize the target protein.
CONCLUSION: The polyclonal antibody specifically recognizing IGF2BP3 has been 
successfully generated.

PMID: 25854578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Vis Exp. 2013 Dec 3;(82):50833. doi: 10.3791/50833.

Production and purification of non replicative canine adenovirus type 2 derived 
vectors.

Szelechowski M(1), Bergeron C, Gonzalez-Dunia D, Klonjkowski B.

Author information:
(1)INSERM UMR 1043, CNRS UMR 5282, Université Toulouse 3.

Adenovirus (Ad) derived vectors have been widely used for short or long-term 
gene transfer, both for gene therapy and vaccine applications. Because of the 
frequent pre-existing immunity against the classically used human adenovirus 
type 5, canine adenovirus type 2 (CAV2) has been proposed as an alternative 
vector for human gene transfer. The well-characterized biology of CAV2, together 
with its ease of genetic manipulation, offer major advantages, notably for gene 
transfer into the central nervous system, or for inducing a wide range of 
protective immune responses, from humoral to cellular immunity. Nowadays, CAV2 
represents one of the most appealing nonhuman adenovirus for use as a vaccine 
vector. This protocol describes a simple method to construct, produce and titer 
recombinant CAV2 vectors. After cloning the expression cassette of the gene of 
interest into a shuttle plasmid, the recombinant genomic plasmid is obtained by 
homologous recombination in the E. coli BJ5183 bacterial strain. The resulting 
genomic plasmid is then transfected into canine kidney cells expressing the 
complementing CAV2-E1 genes (DK-E1). A viral amplification enables the 
production of a large viral stock, which is purified by ultracentrifugation 
through cesium chloride gradients and desalted by dialysis. The resulting viral 
suspension routinely has a titer of over 10(10) infectious particles per ml and 
can be directly administrated in vivo.

DOI: 10.3791/50833
PMCID: PMC4028826
PMID: 24326926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Dec;92(2):163-70. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.09.013. Epub 
2013 Sep 29.

The Fh8 tag: a fusion partner for simple and cost-effective protein purification 
in Escherichia coli.

Costa SJ(1), Coelho E, Franco L, Almeida A, Castro A, Domingues L.

Author information:
(1)IBB - Institute for Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Centre of Biological 
Engineering, Universidade do Minho, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal; 
Instituto Nacional de Saúde Dr. Ricardo Jorge (INSARJ), Porto, Portugal.

Downstream processing is still a major bottleneck in recombinant protein 
production representing most of its costs. Hence, there is a continuing demand 
of novel and cost-effective purification processes aiming at the recovery of 
pure and active target protein. In this work, a novel purification methodology 
is presented, using the Fh8 solubility enhancer tag as fusion handle. The 
binding properties of Fh8 tag to a hydrophobic matrix were first studied via 
hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC). The Fh8 tag was then evaluated as 
a purification handle by its fusion to green fluorescent protein and superoxide 
dismutase. The purification efficiency of the Fh8-HIC strategy was compared to 
the immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) using the His6 tag. 
Results showed that the Fh8-HIC binding mechanism is calcium-dependent in a low 
salt medium, making the purification process highly selective. Both target 
proteins were biologically active, even when fused to Fh8, and were successfully 
purified by HIC, achieving efficiencies identical to those of IMAC. Thus, the 
Fh8 acts as an effective affinity tag that, together with its previously 
reported solubility enhancer capability, allows for the design of inexpensive 
and successful recombinant protein production processes in Escherichia coli.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.09.013
PMID: 24084009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Microb Cell Fact. 2010 May 11;9:30. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-30.

A novel prokaryotic vector for identification and selection of recombinants: 
direct use of the vector for expression studies in E. coli.

Banerjee S(1), Kumar J, Apte-Deshpande A, Padmanabhan S.

Author information:
(1)Lupin Limited, Biotechnology R & D, Gat #1156, Ghotawade Village, Mulshi 
Taluka, Pune-411042, India. srirampadmanabhan@lupinpharma.com

BACKGROUND: The selection of bacterial recombinants that harbour a desired 
insert, has been a key factor in molecular cloning and a series of screening 
procedures need to be performed for selection of clones carrying the genes of 
interest. The conventional cloning techniques are reported to have problems such 
as screening high number of colonies, generation of false positives, setting up 
of control ligation mix with vector alone etc.
RESULTS: We describe the development of a novel dual cloning/expression vector, 
which enables to screen the recombinants directly and expression of the gene of 
interest. The vector contains Green fluorescence protein (GFP) as the reporter 
gene and is constructed in such a way that the E. coli cells upon transformation 
with this vector does not show any fluorescence, but readily fluoresce upon 
insertion of a foreign gene of interest. The same construct could be easily used 
for screening of the clones and expression studies by mere switching to specific 
hosts.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first vector reported that takes the property of colour 
or fluorescence to be achieved only upon cloning while all the other vectors 
available commercially show loss of colour or loss of fluorescence upon cloning. 
As the fluorescence of GFP depends on the solubility of the protein, the 
intensity of the fluorescence would also indicate the extent of solubility of 
the expressed target protein.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-30
PMCID: PMC2882348
PMID: 20459760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Biomaterials. 2007 Aug;28(24):3560-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2007.04.039. 
Epub 2007 May 3.

Practical recombinant hybrid mussel bioadhesive fp-151.

Hwang DS(1), Gim Y, Yoo HJ, Cha HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea.

Mussel adhesive proteins (MAPs) have received increased attention as potential 
environmentally friendly adhesives under aqueous conditions and in medicine. 
However, attempts to produce functional recombinant MAPs (mainly foot protein 
type 1, fp-1) by several expression systems have failed. Even though we 
previously reported a functional expression of recombinant foot protein type 5 
(fp-5) with significant adhesive ability in Escherichia coli, its practical use 
was limited by several problems such as low production yield, low purification 
yield, and high levels of post-purification insolubility. Here, to overcome 
these limitations, we designed and constructed the novel type of hybrid mussel 
bioadhesive fp-151, a fusion protein comprising six fp-1 decapeptide repeats at 
each fp-5 terminus. Using micro- and bulk-scale characterization and mammalian 
cell-adhesion analyses, we demonstrate that fp-151 has the potential to be a 
practical bioadhesive with strong adhesive ability, a simple purification 
process ( approximately 1g-purified protein per 1l-pilot-scale fed-batch 
bioreactor culture), proper manipulation properties ( approximately 330g/l 
solubility), and high biocompatibility.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2007.04.039
PMID: 17507090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. J Biosci Bioeng. 2018 Nov;126(5):547-552. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.05.019. 
Epub 2018 Jun 23.

Modification of an engineered Escherichia coli by a combined strategy of 
deleting branch pathway, fine-tuning xylose isomerase expression, and 
substituting decarboxylase to improve 1,2,4-butanetriol production.

Jing P(1), Cao X(1), Lu X(1), Zong H(1), Zhuge B(2).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China; The 
Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China; The 
Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China. Electronic address: 
bzhuge@126.com.

1,2,4-Butanetriol (BT) is an important precursor of energetic material 
1,2,4-butanetriol trinitrate (BTTN) in military field. Here, the recombinant 
Escherichia coli was modified by multi-strategy to increase BT production. 
First, the 2-keto acid reduction pathway was blocked by double deleting the 
genes yiaE and ycdW, resulting in 19% and 41% increase of BT titer and yield, 
respectively. Further disruption of xylose branch pathway by deleting xylA gene 
led to a 24% increase of BT yield, but the biomass and BT titer were decreased 
by 63% and 55%, respectively. To balance the carbon flux for cell growth and BT 
biosynthesis, the expression of xylA gene was interfered by antisense RNA. The 
biomass and BT titers of all the mutants harboring asRNA were restored and the 
highest BT production was improved by 214 %. Finally, substitute expression of 
the high efficient decarboxylase KivD led to a 72% increase of BT titer 
(10.03 g/L), which is significantly higher than previously reported (5.1 g/L). 
This work provided some effective strategies for improving BT production by 
balancing the carbon flux redistribution and reducing power regeneration.

Copyright © 2018 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.05.019
PMID: 29945765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Biotechnol J. 2011 Jun;6(6):752-60. doi: 10.1002/biot.201100014. Epub 2011 Apr 
29.

The aggregation properties of Escherichia coli proteins associated with their 
cellular abundance.

Castillo V(1), Graña-Montes R, Ventura S.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i Biomedicina and Departament de Bioquímica i 
Biologia Molecular, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Barcelona, 
Spain.

Proteins are key players in most cellular processes. Therefore, their abundances 
are thought to be tightly regulated at the gene-expression level. Recent studies 
indicate, however, that steady-state cellular-protein concentrations correlate 
better across species than the levels of the corresponding mRNAs; this supports 
the existence of selective forces to maintain precise cellular-protein 
concentrations and homeostasis, even if gene-expression levels diverge. One of 
these forces might be the avoidance of protein aggregation because, in the cell, 
the folding of proteins into functional conformations might be in competition 
with anomalous aggregation into non-functional and usually toxic structures in a 
concentration-dependent manner. The data in the present work provide support for 
this hypothesis because, in E. coli, the experimental solubility of proteins 
correlates better with the cellular abundance than with the gene-expression 
levels. We found that the divergence between protein and mRNAs levels is low for 
high-abundance proteins. This suggests that because abundant proteins are at 
higher risk of aggregation, cellular concentrations need to be stringently 
regulated by gene expression.

Copyright © 2011 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201100014
PMID: 21538899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Bioresour Technol. 2022 Jan;344(Pt B):126090. doi: 
10.1016/j.biortech.2021.126090. Epub 2021 Oct 8.

Development of efficient microbial cell factory for whole-cell bioconversion of 
L-threonine to 2-hydroxybutyric acid.

Le T(1), Park S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Energy and Chemical 
Engineering, College of Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and 
Technology (UNIST), 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Republic of South Korea.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Energy and Chemical 
Engineering, College of Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and 
Technology (UNIST), 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Republic of South Korea. 
Electronic address: parksh@unist.ac.kr.

Production of 2-hydroxybutyric acid (2-HBA) was attempted in recombinant 
Escherichia coli W3110 Δtdh ΔilvIH (over)expressing a homologous and mutated 
threonine dehydratase (ilvA*) and a heterologous 2-ketobutyric acid (2-KBA) 
reductase from Alcaligenes eutrophus H16 (Ae_ldh). To prevent the degradation of 
2-KBA, the aceE, poxB and pflB genes were deleted, and for blocking the 2-HBA 
degradation, the lldD and dld genes were disrupted. In addition, for efficient 
NADH regeneration/supply, a heterologous formate dehydrogenase from Candida 
boidinii (Cb_fdh) was overexpressed. Under anaerobic condition, E. coli W3110 
Δtdh ΔilvIH ΔaceE ΔpoxB ΔlldD Δdld ΔpflB could produce > 400 mM 2-HBA in 33 h 
with the yield of ∼ 0.95 mol/mol. Furthermore, by enhancing the expression of a 
mutant Cb_fdh, the titer could be increased to ∼ 650 mM in 33 h. This study 
provides an efficient microbial cell factory for the bioconversion of threonine 
to 2-HBA with a high yield.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2021.126090
PMID: 34634464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2007 Nov;20(11):543-9. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzm055. Epub 
2007 Oct 30.

Solubilization of aggregation-prone heterologous proteins by covalent fusion of 
stress-responsive Escherichia coli protein, SlyD.

Han KY(1), Song JA, Ahn KY, Park JS, Seo HS, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-713, South Korea.

The proteome profile of Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) generated in response to heat 
shock stress was analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE), wherein we 
identified a FKBP-type peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerse (PPIases), SlyD, as a 
stress-responsive (i.e. aggregation-resistant) protein. Even under an imposed 
severe stress condition where 29 out of 858 soluble proteins were totally 
eliminated and the synthesis levels of 171 proteins decreased over 5-fold, a 
3.37-fold increase induced by heat shock treatment was observed in the synthesis 
level of SlyD compared with a non-stress condition. As a fusion partner, as well 
as solubility enhancer, SlyD facilitated folding and significantly increased the 
solubility of many aggregation-prone heterologous proteins in E. coli cytoplasm. 
SlyD was very effective in sequestering interactive surfaces of heterologous 
proteins associated with non-specific protein-protein interactions and the 
formation of inclusion bodies, most likely as a result of intrinsic folding 
efficiencies and/or chaperone-like activities. SlyD was also shown to be 
suitable for the production of a biologically active fusion mutant of 
Pseudomonas putida cutinase that is of considerable biotechnological and 
commercial interest.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzm055
PMID: 17971396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Genome Biol. 2010;11(9):R98. doi: 10.1186/gb-2010-11-9-r98. Epub 2010 Sep 29.

The rate of the molecular clock and the cost of gratuitous protein synthesis.

Plata G(1), Gottesman ME, Vitkup D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Columbia University, 
1130 St Nicholas Ave, New York City, NY 10032, USA. gap211811@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: The nature of the protein molecular clock, the protein-specific rate 
of amino acid substitutions, is among the central questions of molecular 
evolution. Protein expression level is the dominant determinant of the clock 
rate in a number of organisms. It has been suggested that highly expressed 
proteins evolve slowly in all species mainly to maintain robustness to 
translation errors that generate toxic misfolded proteins. Here we investigate 
this hypothesis experimentally by comparing the growth rate of Escherichia coli 
expressing wild type and misfolding-prone variants of the LacZ protein.
RESULTS: We show that the cost of toxic protein misfolding is small compared to 
other costs associated with protein synthesis. Complementary computational 
analyses demonstrate that there is also a relatively weaker, but statistically 
significant, selection for increasing solubility and polarity in highly 
expressed E. coli proteins.
CONCLUSIONS: Although we cannot rule out the possibility that selection against 
misfolding toxicity significantly affects the protein clock in species other 
than E. coli, our results suggest that it is unlikely to be the dominant and 
universal factor determining the clock rate in all organisms. We find that in 
this bacterium other costs associated with protein synthesis are likely to play 
an important role. Interestingly, our experiments also suggest significant costs 
associated with volume effects, such as jamming of the cellular environment with 
unnecessary proteins.

DOI: 10.1186/gb-2010-11-9-r98
PMCID: PMC2965390
PMID: 20920270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2013 Nov;42(6):654-9.

[Construction of recombinant adenovirus vector pAdxsi-GFP-HIF containing hypoxia 
inducible factor gene and its expression in endothelial cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Ha X(1), Jiang D, Deng Z, Dong J, Zhao Y, Peng J, Yang Z.

Author information:
(1)Department Clinical Laboratory, Lanzhou Military Command General Hospital of 
the People's Liberation Army; Key Laboratory of Stem Cell and Gene Medicine of 
Gansu Province, Lanzhou 730050, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant adenovirus (pAdxsi-GFP-HIF) encoding human 
hypoxia inducible factor 1 α gene (HIF-1 α) and to express it in endothelial 
cells.
METHODS: HIF-1 α gene was obtained from human lung cancer cell line A549, which 
was cultured in hypoxia condition, by RT-PCR. The HIF-1 α gene was subcloned 
into shuttle vector p Shuttle-CMV-EGFP at KpnI and BamHI sites. After identified 
with restriction enzymes, plasmid p Shuttle-GFP-HIF was linearized by digestion 
with restriction endonuclease I-CeuI and I-SceI, and subsequently cotransformed 
into E.coli DH5a with adenoviral backbone plasmid pAdxsi to make homologous 
recombination. After linearized by PacI, the homologous recombinant adenovirus 
plasmid was transfected into 293 cells to package and amplify. The recombinant 
adenovirus was infected with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (ECV304), 
and the expression level of HIF-1 α protein was evaluated by ELISA.
RESULTS: The recombinant adenovirus vector containing HIF-1 α gene 
(pAdxsi-GFP-HIF) was successfully constructed and amplified with titer of 3.38 X 
10(10) pfu/mL. The green fluorescence protein was detected under fluorescent 
microscope in ECV304 at 24h after transfection and with a stronger degree after 
48h. The concentration of HIF-1 protein was (48.93 ±3.86)ng/mL in supernatant at 
48 h after transfection.
CONCLUSION: A recombinant adenovirus vector pAdxsi-GFP-HIF, encoding human 
hypoxia inducible factor 1 α gene, has been constructed in vitro and expressed 
successfully in ECV304 cells.

PMID: 24421232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Apr;98(8):3669-78. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-013-5275-1. Epub 2013 Oct 22.

Production, characterization, and immunogenicity of a secreted form of 
Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 4 produced in Bacillus subtilis.

Chittibabu G(1), Ma C, Netter HJ, Noronha SB, Coppel RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical engineering, IIT Bombay, Mumbai, 400076, India.

Plasmodium falciparum is the causative agent of the most serious form of 
malaria. Although a combination of control measures has significantly limited 
malaria morbidity and mortality in the last few years, it is generally agreed 
that sustained control or even eradication will require additional tools 
including an effective malaria vaccine. Merozoite surface protein 4, MSP4, which 
is present during the asexual stage of P. falciparum, is a recognized target 
that would be useful in a subunit vaccine against blood stages of malaria. 
Falciparum malaria is most prevalent in developing countries, and this in turn 
leads to a requirement for safe, low-cost vaccines. We have attempted to utilize 
the nonpathogenic, gram-positive organism Bacillus subtilis to produce PfMSP4. 
PfMSP4 was secreted into the culture medium at a yield of 4.5 mg/L. 
Characterization studies including SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry, and N-terminal 
sequencing indicated that the B. subtilis expression system secreted a full 
length PfMSP4 protein compared to a truncated version in Escherichia coli. 
Equivalent amounts of purified B. subtilis and E. coli-derived PfMSP4 were used 
for immunization studies, resulting in statistically significant higher mean 
titer values for the B. subtilis-derived immunogen. The mouse antibodies raised 
against B. subtilis produced PfMSP4 that were reactive to parasite proteins as 
evidenced by immunoblotting on parasite lysate and indirect immunofluorescence 
assays of fixed parasites. The B. subtilis expression system, in contrast to E. 
coli, expresses higher amounts of full length PfMSP4 products, decreased levels 
of aggregates, and allows the development of simplified downstream processing 
procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-013-5275-1
PMID: 24146077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Iran J Vet Res. 2019 Spring;20(2):112-119.

Evaluation of immune response to recombinant Bacillus anthracis LFD1-PA4 
chimeric protein.

Mirhaj H(1), Honari H(2), Zamani E(3).

Author information:
(1)Ph.D. Student in Nano Biotechnology, Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic 
Science, Imam Hossein University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Imam Hossein University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)MSc Student in Cellular and Molecular Biology, Department of Biology, Faculty 
of Basic Science, Imam Hossein University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Anthrax is a particularly dangerous infectious disease that affects 
humans and livestock. Efficacious vaccines that can rapidly induce a long-term 
immune response are required to prevent anthrax infection in humans. Domains 4 
and 1 of the protective antigen (PA) and lethal factor (LF), respectively, have 
very high antigenic properties.
AIMS: In this experimental study, the pET28a-lfD1-pa4 expression vector was 
designed, constructed and transferred into E. coli BL21 (DE3) plysS.
METHODS: For this purpose, pa4 gene was amplified by polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) and cloned in a pGEM T-easy vector. The pGEM-pa4 and pGEM-lfD1 were 
digested by XbaI and HindIII enzymes. The ligation reaction was performed by 
ligase T4 enzyme and the gene cassette, lfD1-pa4, was subcloned in pET28a and 
transferred to E. coli BL21 (DE3) PlysS. Expression and puriﬁcation of chimeric 
proteins were conﬁrmed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blotting techniques. The chimera LFD1-PA4 
and mixed LFD1+PA4 proteins were injected four times into mice and antibody 
production was relativity evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
test.
RESULTS: The results showed that both chimeric and mixed proteins are 
immunogenic, but LFD1-PA4 has a higher potential to stimulate mice immune 
system.
CONCLUSION: LFD1-PA4 chimeric protein induced a higher immune response than 
LFD1+PA4 mixed protein and elicited antibody responses to LF and edema factor 
(EF), therefore, it holds promise to be a more effective trivalent vaccine 
candidate to use in anthrax prevention.

PMCID: PMC6716276
PMID: 31531033

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


906. DNA Res. 2003 Jun 30;10(3):129-36. doi: 10.1093/dnares/10.3.129.

High-throughput production of recombinant antigens for mouse KIAA proteins in 
Escherichia coli: computational allocation of possible antigenic regions, and 
construction of expression plasmids of glutathione-S-transferase-fused antigens 
by an in vitro recombination-assisted method.

Hara Y(1), Shimada K, Kohga H, Ohara O, Koga H.

Author information:
(1)Chiba Industry Advancement Center, 2-6 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba 261-7126, 
Japan.

Since the end of 2001, we have conducted a project to isolate and determine 
entire sequences of mouse cDNA clones which encode the polypeptides 
corresponding to human KIAA proteins. Towards the ultimate goal of this project 
to clarify the biological functions of KIAA genes, we have set production of 
antibodies against mouse KIAA gene products based on their sequence information 
as the next important stage. As the first step, we developed a high-throughput 
system utilizing shotgun clones generated during entire sequencing of mouse KIAA 
cDNAs. The system consists of the following three parts: (1) Shotgun clones 
encoding regions suitable for production of antigens were selected using a newly 
developed browser system; (2) the protein-coding sequences of the selected 
shotgun clones were transferred into an expression vector by in vitro 
recombination-assisted method in a 96-well format, and expressed as glutathione 
S-transferase fusion proteins in Escherichia coli; and (3) the solubility of the 
recombinant antigens were preliminarily assessed in a small-scale culture and 
then large-scale production and purification was performed using 
glutathione-affinity beads or retrieval from polyacrylamide gels depending on 
their solubility. Using these systems, we successfully produced and purified 400 
antigens for production of mKIAA antibodies to date.

DOI: 10.1093/dnares/10.3.129
PMID: 12886955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2008 Nov;37(6):599-604.

[Prokaryotic expression of trigeminy artificial fusion gene of Leptospira 
interrogans and the immunogenicity of its products].

[Article in Chinese]

Luo DJ(1), Qiu XF, Wang J, Yan J, Wang HB, Zhou JC, Yan J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Basic Medicine, Qian-jiang College of Hangzhou Normal University, 
Hangzhou 310013, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct lipL32/1-lipL21-OmpL1/2 fusion gene of Leptospira 
interrogans and its prokaryotic expression system, and to identify the 
immunogenicity of its products.
METHODS: PCR using linking primers was applied to construct 
lipL32/1-lipL21-OmpL1/2 fusion gene and a prokaryotic expression system of the 
fusion gene was then established using routine genetic engineering technique. 
SDS-PAGE was used to examine output of the target recombinant protein 
rLipL32/1-LipL21-OmpL1/2. Double immunodiffusion and Western Blot assay were 
applied to identify immunogenicity of rLipL32/1-LipL21-OmpL1/2.
RESULT: lipL32/1-lipL21-OmpL1/2 fusion gene with correct sequence and its 
prokaryotic expression system E.coli BL21DE3pET42a-lipL32/1-lipL21-ompL1/2 was 
obtained in this study. The output of rLipL32/1-LipL21- OmpL1/2 after 
optimisation was 37.78 mg/L. The immunodiffusion titer of rabbit antiserum 
against rLipL32/1-LipL21-OmpL1/2 was 1:4. The rLipL32/1-LipL21-OmpL1/2 antiserum 
was able to recognize rLipL32/1-LipL21-OmpL1/2, rLipL32/1, rLipL21 and rOmpL1/2. 
Positive Western hybridization signals were found among rLipL32/1-LipL21-OmpL1/2 
and rabbit antiserum against whole cell of strain 56601 and serum from patients 
infected with L.interrogans serogroups Icterohaemorrhagiae, Grippotyphosa, 
Autumnalis and Pomona.
CONCLUSION: The fusion gene lipL32/1-lipL21-OmpL1/2 and its prokaryotic 
expression system were successfully constructed in this study. The expressed 
fusion protein can be used as the antigen for developing universal genetic 
engineering vaccine and universal serological tests of leptospirosis.

PMID: 19084958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Photosynth Res. 2008 Oct-Dec;98(1-3):391-403. doi: 10.1007/s11120-008-9327-9. 
Epub 2008 Aug 16.

Importance of a single disulfide bond for the PsbO protein of photosystem II: 
protein structure stability and soluble overexpression in Escherichia coli.

Nikitina J(1), Shutova T, Melnik B, Chernyshov S, Marchenkov V, Semisotnov G, 
Klimov V, Samuelsson G.

Author information:
(1)Umeå Plant Science Centre, Department of Plant Physiology, Umeå University, 
901 87 Umea, Sweden.

PsbO protein is an important constituent of the water-oxidizing complex, located 
on the lumenal side of photosystem II. We report here the efficient expression 
of the spinach PsbO in E. coli where the solubility depends entirely on the 
formation of the disulfide bond. The PsbO protein purified from a pET32 system 
that includes thioredoxin fusion is properly folded and functionally active. 
Urea unfolding experiments imply that the reduction of the single disulfide 
bridge decreases stability of the protein. Analysis of inter-residue contact 
density through the PsbO molecule shows that Cys51 is located in a cluster with 
high contact density. Reduction of the Cys28-Cys51 bond is proposed to perturb 
the packing interactions in this cluster and destabilize the protein as a whole. 
Taken together, our results give evidence that PsbO exists in solution as a 
compact highly ordered structure, provided that the disulfide bridge is not 
reduced.

DOI: 10.1007/s11120-008-9327-9
PMID: 18709441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2021 May 4;19(1):63. doi: 10.1186/s43141-021-00164-9.

Immunocontraceptive potential of a GnRH receptor-based fusion recombinant 
protein.

Sandam NP(1), Prakash D(2), Thimmareddy P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, M.S. Ramaiah Institute of Technology, Bangalore, 
India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, M.S. Ramaiah Institute of Technology, Bangalore, 
India. dhamu.bio@gmail.com.
(3)Geniron Biolabs Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India.

BACKGROUND: The management of stray dog population has been of utmost importance 
due to their overpopulation, increase in dog bites incidence, and rabies. 
Contraceptive vaccines, a non-surgical alternative to spaying and neutering are 
viewed as a valuable option for the management of dog population. In this study, 
the contraceptive potential of a recombinant fusion protein containing the three 
genes GnRH, GnRH receptor, and ZP3 was explored.
RESULTS: The gene fragment encoding GnRH, GnRHR, and ZP3 along with the 
antigenic epitopes of canine distemper virus and tetanus toxoid was assembled, 
synthesized, and cloned into pET28a expression vector. The resulting construct 
GVAC08 was successfully transformed into BL21DE3 strain of E. coli and confirmed 
by colony PCR. The recombinant GVAC08 protein was expressed and purified using 
Ni-NTA and was confirmed to be a 50-KDa protein by SDS PAGE and Western blot. 
Mice were immunized with the GVAC08 protein using Freund's complete adjuvant 
followed by a booster using Freund's incomplete adjuvant. This induced a high 
antibody titer against GnRH, GnRH receptor, and ZP3 which was determined by 
ELISA.
CONCLUSION: Mating studies showed that the GVAC08 recombinant protein was able 
to reduce the litter size in immunized mice showing improved efficacy. However, 
the vaccine candidate with further improvements will be a viable contraceptive 
vaccine.

DOI: 10.1186/s43141-021-00164-9
PMCID: PMC8096874
PMID: 33945047

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


910. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2013 Feb;31(1):33-8.

[The binding property of different regions in Duffy-binding-like domain alpha of 
Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 to heparin].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Y, Sun XD, Yang C, Zhang YN, Song M, Lu HJ, Jiang N, Yin JG, Chen QJ.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane 
protein 1 DBLalpha (PfEMP1-DBLalpha) and three fragments genes, and screen the 
strongest affinity sequence with the red blood cell surface receptors-heparin or 
heparin sulfate in the structure of PfEMP1-DBLalpha.
METHODS: The sequence of PfEMP1-DBLalpha1245 was optimized according to the 
characteristics of E. coli codon, synthesized, and divided into three fragments 
(DBLaA, DBLalphaB, and DBLalphaC) by PCR. Full-length gene and three gene 
fragments were subcloned into PGEX-4T-1 vector, and transformed into E. coli 
BL21 and then induced with IPTG for expression. The recombinant protein was 
purified from bacterial lysates using glutathione-Sepharose 4B. Heparin affinity 
test and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) inhibition test were used to analyze the 
affinity between recombinant protein and heparin.
RESULTS: Four recombinant proteins(DBLalpha1245, DBLalphaA, DBLalphaB, and 
DBLalphaC) were expressed as solubility and the relative molecular weight (M(r) 
73 600, M(r) 41 600, M(r) 42 500, and M(r) 41 500) were conformed to the 
prediction size. Heparin affinity test and GAG inhibition test showed that the 
four recombinant proteins were binded to the heparin-Sepharose, but not for the 
GST control. DBLalphaC (Q285-Y415) had the strongest affinity to heparin.
CONCLUSION: The strongest affinity sequence with heparin or heparin sulfate in 
the structure of PfEMP1-DBLalpha is Q285-Y415, which plays a role in binding of 
Plasmodium falciparum infected red blood cells to the peripheral red blood 
cells.

PMID: 24812834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Microb Cell Fact. 2013 Oct 27;12:97. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-97.

High-yield production of functional soluble single-domain antibodies in the 
cytoplasm of Escherichia coli.

Zarschler K(1), Witecy S, Kapplusch F, Foerster C, Stephan H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Radiopharmaceutical Cancer Research, Helmholtz-Zentrum 
Dresden-Rossendorf, Bautzner Landstraße 400, 01328 Dresden, Germany. 
k.zarschler@hzdr.de.

BACKGROUND: For their application in the area of diagnosis and therapy, 
single-domain antibodies (sdAbs) offer multiple advantages over conventional 
antibodies and fragments thereof in terms of size, stability, solubility, 
immunogenicity, production costs as well as tumor uptake and blood clearance. 
Thus, sdAbs have been identified as valuable next-generation targeting moieties 
for molecular imaging and drug delivery in the past years. Since these probes 
are much less complex than conventional antibody fragments, bacterial expression 
represents a facile method in order to produce sdAbs in large amounts as soluble 
and functional proteins.
RESULTS: By the combined use of high cell density cultivation media with a 
genetically engineered E. coli mutant strain designed for the cytoplasmic 
formation of proper disulfide bonds, we achieved high level of intracellular 
sdAb production (up to 200 mg/L). Due to a carboxyterminal hexahistidine 
epitope, the soluble recombinant sdAbs could be purified by one-step immobilized 
metal affinity chromatography to apparent homogeneity and easily radiolabeled 
with 99mTc within 1 h. The intradomain disulfide bridge being critical for the 
stability and functionality of the sdAb molecule was shown to be properly formed 
in ~96% of the purified proteins. In vitro binding studies confirmed the high 
affinity and specificity of the expressed sdAb 7C12 towards its molecular 
target.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates an efficient cultivation and expression 
strategy for the production of substantial amounts of soluble and functional 
sdAbs, which may be adopted for high-yield production of other more complex 
proteins with multiple disulfides as well.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-97
PMCID: PMC3818982
PMID: 24161153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2011 Nov;38(11):1845-52. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-011-0973-0. Epub 2011 Apr 22.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for improving 
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) synthesis from glucose.

Muñoz AJ(1), Hernández-Chávez G, de Anda R, Martínez A, Bolívar F, Gosset G.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingenierıa Celular y Biocatálisis, Instituto de 
Biotecnología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Apdo. Postal 510-3, 
62210 Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is an aromatic compound employed for the 
treatment of Parkinson's disease. Metabolic engineering was applied to generate 
Escherichia coli strains for the production of L-DOPA from glucose by modifying 
the phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS) and aromatic 
biosynthetic pathways. Carbon flow was directed to the biosynthesis of 
L-tyrosine (L-Tyr), an L-DOPA precursor, by transforming strains with compatible 
plasmids carrying genes encoding a feedback-inhibition resistant version of 
3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate-7-phosphate synthase, transketolase, the 
chorismate mutase domain from chorismate mutase-prephenate dehydratase from E. 
coli and cyclohexadienyl dehydrogenase from Zymomonas mobilis. The effects on 
L-Tyr production of PTS inactivation (PTS(-) gluc(+) phenotype), as well as 
inactivation of the regulatory protein TyrR, were evaluated. PTS inactivation 
caused a threefold increase in the specific rate of L-Tyr production (q( 
L-Tyr)), whereas inactivation of TyrR caused 1.7- and 1.9-fold increases in q( 
L-Tyr) in the PTS(+) and the PTS(-) gluc(+) strains, respectively. An 8.6-fold 
increase in L-Tyr yield from glucose was observed in the PTS(-) gluc(+) tyrR (-) 
strain. Expression of hpaBC genes encoding the enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylacetate 
3-hydroxylase from E. coli W in the strains modified for L-Tyr production caused 
the synthesis of L-DOPA. One of such strains, having the PTS(-) gluc(+) tyrR (-) 
phenotype, displayed the best production parameters in minimal medium, with a 
specific rate of L-DOPA production of 13.6 mg/g/h, L-DOPA yield from glucose of 
51.7 mg/g and a final L-DOPA titer of 320 mg/l. In a batch fermentor culture in 
rich medium this strain produced 1.51 g/l of L-DOPA in 50 h.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-011-0973-0
PMID: 21512819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2009 Mar;40(2):185-9.

[Expression of human VIGILIN N terminus and observation of subcellular 
localization].

[Article in Chinese]

Wei L(1), Zhang CL, Jiang L, Yang WL, Xie XY, Qin Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, West China School of 
Preclinical and Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express human VIGILIN N terminus gene in E. coli, prepare the 
polyclonal antibody and study the subcell localization of human VIGILIN.
METHODS: The N-terminal sequence of human VIGILIN was amplified by PCR and 
cloned into the polyclonal site of pGEX-4T-2 expression vector. The fusion 
protein was expressed under induction of IPTG in E. coli BL21. The extracted GST 
fusion protein was purified by GSTrap-FF affinity chromatography. The polyclonal 
antibody against human VIGILIN N was prepared by immunizing New Zealand white 
rabbits using the purified fusion protein as immunogen and analyzed the titer 
and specificity of the antiserum by ELISA and Western blot. Through 
immunofluorescence staining, the distribution of VIGILIN in cell was observed.
RESULTS: Expression of the GST fusion protein was induced with 1 mmol/L IPTG at 
28 C for 3 hours. The antibody titer was 1:16000. Western blot analysis 
demonstrated that the polyclonal antibody can recognize VIGILIN specifically. 
VIGILIN present in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Its distribution in the 
nucleus concentrated on the inner layer of nuclear membrane and the region close 
prominent area of DAPI staining.
CONCLUSION: The human VIGILIN fusion protein was successfully expressed. The 
polyclonal antibody against human VIGILIN was generated and was further applied 
to the study of distribution of VIGILIN in cells. This study will provide a 
substantial base for further clarification of the quality and function of 
VIGILIN.

PMID: 19462886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Feb;31(2):159-62, 167.

[Over-expression of neutrophil elastase promotes proliferation and inhibits 
apoptosis in K562 cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang K(1), Ma P(2), Yang X(2), Zhong L(2), Wang H(2), Zhu X(2), Liu B(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Laboratory, Yongchuan Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing 402160, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medical 
Diagnostics, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing 400016, China.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medical Diagnostics, 
Department of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 
400016, China.

OBJECTIVE: To establish recombinant adenovirus carrying human neutrophil 
elastase (NE) gene using AdEasy system, over-express NE in K562 cell line and 
observe the effects of NE on K562 cell proliferation and apoptosis.
METHODS: NE gene was amplified with RNA extracted from acute premyelocytic 
leukemia (APL) HL-60 cells as a template using reverse transcription-PCR. The 
coding sequence was cloned into shuttle plasmid pAdTrack-CMV to obtain the 
recombinant plasmid named pAd-NE. After digested with HindIII and EcoRV and 
sequenced, the pAd-NE was transformed to competent E.coli BJ5183 containing 
adenovirus backbone plasmid pAdEasy-1. The obtained recombinant adenovirus 
plasmid Ad-NE was digested with PacI and transfected into AD293 cells for 
packaging. Fourteen days later, primary recombinant adenovirus Ad-NE was 
harvested, and then subjected to five cycles of amplification, titer 
determination and PCR identification. K562 cells were infected by the 
recombinant adenovirus. The infection efficiency was observed under a 
fluorescence microscope and detected by flow cytometry. Western blotting was 
used to detect NE expression. The proliferation of K562 cells was detected by 
CCK-8 assay. Cell cycle and apoptosis was measured by annexin V/PI accompanied 
by flow cytometry.
RESULTS: HindIII and EcoRV digestion and sequencing suggested that the 
recombinant vector Ad-NE was successfully constructed. The recombinant plasmid 
Ad-NE was packaged in AD293 cells as expected. Following five-cycle 
amplification, the viral titer was up to 1.64 × 10¹² pfu/mL. GFP expression 
observed by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry implied that the 
infection efficiency of Ad-NE in K562 cells reached about 80%. Western blotting 
showed that NE expression was up-regulated in K562 cells. CCK-8 assay revealed 
that the proliferation of K562 cells over-expressing NE was enhanced. Meanwhile, 
flow cytometry indicated that the K562 cells were arrested in S phase and the 
apoptosis rate was highly reduced.
CONCLUSION: Over-expressed NE in K562 leukemia cells could promote cell 
proliferation, inhibit apoptosis and block cell cycle in S phase.

PMID: 25652853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. World J Gastroenterol. 2005 May 14;11(18):2704-8. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i18.2704.

Expression of lysosome-associated protein transmembrane 4B-35 in cancer and its 
correlation with the differentiation status of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Peng C(1), Zhou RL, Shao GZ, Rui JA, Wang SB, Lin M, Zhang S, Gao ZF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing 100083, China.

AIM: To produce high-quality polyclonal antibody to lysosome-associated protein 
transmembrane 4B-35 and to identify LAPTM4B-35 expression in cancer tissues and 
its correlation with differentiation status of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
METHODS: The 297 bp 5' end of LAPTM4B cDNA was obtained by PCR and inserted into 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-KG. Then the recombinant pGEX-KG-N(1-99) was 
transformed into E.coli JM109 to express GST-fusion protein. The fusion protein 
was purified by glutathione sepharose(TM) 4B agarose. The purified 
GST-LAPTM4B-N(1-99) was characterized by SDS-PAGE, and used to immunize rabbits. 
The titer and specificity of antisera were detected by ELISA and Western blot, 
respectively. The correlation between the expression levels of LAPTM4B-35 and 
the differentiation status of HCC was analyzed via Western blot. The expression 
of LAPTM4B-35 in HCC and other six cancer tissues was investigated via tissue 
chip and immunohistochemical analysis.
RESULTS: About 6.2 mg of pure GST-LAPTM4B-N(1-99) was isolated from 1 L of 
bacteria. The GST-LAPTM4B-N(1-99) produced high titer antisera in rabbits and 
showed good immunity. Western blot showed specific reactions for the antibody to 
the LAPTM4B-35 in the total proteins from HCC tissues and BEL-7402 cells, also 
to the fusion protein purified or in the transformed bacteria. LAPTM4B-35 was 
remarkably expressed in several cancers, such as HCC, breast cancer, gastric 
carcinoma, lung cancer, and colon carcinoma, but not commonly expressed in 
esophageal cancer and rectum carcinoma. Notably, the expression levels of 
LAPTM4B-35 were significantly and inversely correlated to the differentiation of 
HCCs in a 20 case analysis.
CONCLUSION: Specific polyclonal antibody (LAPTM4B-N(1-99)-pAb) to LAPTM4B-35 was 
produced. It identified the expression of LAPTM4B-35 in some cancer tissues 
originated from single layer cuboidal and columnar epithelial cells and firmly 
demonstrated that the expression of LAPTM4B-35 in HCC was inversely correlated 
with the differentiation of HCC.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v11.i18.2704
PMCID: PMC4305901
PMID: 15884107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2000 Sep;54(3):361-9. doi: 10.1007/s002530000406.

Fed-batch production of recombinant human calcitonin precursor fusion protein 
using Staphylococcus carnosus as an expression-secretion system.

Dilsen S(1), Paul W, Sandgathe A, Tippe D, Freudl R, Thömmes J, Kula MR, Takors 
R, Wandrey C, Weuster-Botz D.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Bioverfahrenstechnik, Technische Universität München, Garching, 
Germany.

A pH-auxostatic fed-batch process was developed for the secretory production of 
a fusion protein consisting of the pro-part of Staphylococcus hyicus lipase and 
two synthetic human calcitonin (hCT) precursor repeats under the control of a 
xylose-inducible promotor from Staphylococcus xylosus. Using glycerol as the 
energy source and pH-controlled addition of yeast extract resulted in the 
production of 2000 mg 1(-1) of the fusion protein (420 mg 1(-1) of the 
recombinant hCT precursor) within 14 h, reaching 45 g 1(-1) cell dry mass with 
Staphylococcus carnosus in a stirred-tank reactor. Product titer and space-time 
yield (30 mg calcitonin precursor 1(-1) h(-1)) were thus improved by a factor of 
2, and 4.5, respectively, compared to Escherichia coli expression-secretion 
systems for the production of calcitonin precursors. Two hundred grams of the 
fusion protein was secreted by the recombinant S. carnosus on a 150-1 scale 
(scale-up factor of 50) with a minimum use of technical-grade yeast extract (40 
mg fusion protein g(-1) yeast extract).

DOI: 10.1007/s002530000406
PMID: 11030573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Jan;30(1):63-5.

[Expression of chicken pulmonary surfactant protein A and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu H(1), Wang H, Shao Y, Huang B, Zhou X, Pan L, Wang G, Qi K.

Author information:
(1)School of Animal Science and Technology, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei 
230036, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express chicken pulmonary surfactant protein A (cSP-A) in 
Escherichia coli and prepare polyclonal antibodies against the recombinant 
cSP-A.
METHODS: The carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) gene of cSP-A (cSP-A-CRD) was 
artificially synthesized, subcloned into the prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-6P-1, and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). After the expression 
products were identified by SDS-PAGE, the gel containing the target protein was 
cut and further purified. Mice were innoculated with the purified recombinant 
protein to prepare polyclonal antibodies against cSP-A. The antibody titer was 
determined by ELISA, and the specificity and application scope of the polyclonal 
antibodies were analyzed by Western blotting, immunohistochemical fluorescence 
assay and ELISA.
RESULTS: The serum against cSP-A was obtained and had an ELISA titer of 
1×10(5);. The serum also showed excellent specificity and reactivity as 
demonstrated by the Western blotting. It could be used to detect the cSP-A in 
chicken lung epithelial cells by immunohistochemical fluorescence staining and 
could also be used to detect the hydrosoluble cSP-A in chicken bronchoalveolar 
lavage fluid by indirect ELISA.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant cSP-A was successfully expressed, and its mouse 
polyclonal antibodies were obtained.

PMID: 24405599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2004;5(1-2):75-86. doi: 
10.1023/B:JSFG.0000029237.70316.52.

SUMO fusions and SUMO-specific protease for efficient expression and 
purification of proteins.

Malakhov MP(1), Mattern MR, Malakhova OA, Drinker M, Weeks SD, Butt TR.

Author information:
(1)LifeSensors, Inc., 271 Great Valley Parkway, Malvern, PA 19355, USA.

SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier) modulates protein structure and function 
by covalently binding to the lysine side chains of the target proteins. Yeast 
cells contain two SUMO proteases, Ulp1 and Ulp2, that cleave sumoylated proteins 
in the cell. Ulp1 (SUMO protease 1) processes the SUMO precursor to its mature 
form and also de-conjugates SUMO from side chain lysines of target proteins. 
Here we demonstrate that attachment of SUMO to the N-terminus of under-expressed 
proteins dramatically enhances their expression in E. coli. SUMO protease 1 was 
able to cleave a variety of SUMO fusions robustly and with impeccable 
specificity. Purified recombinant SUMO-GFPs were efficiently cleaved when any 
amino acid, except proline, was in the+1 position of the cleavage site. The 
enzyme was active over a broad range of buffer and temperature conditions. 
Purification of certain recombinant proteins is accomplished by production of 
Ub-fusions from which Ub can be subsequently removed by de-ubiquitinating 
enzymes (DUBs). However, DUBs are unstable enzymes that are difficult to produce 
and inexpensive DUBs are not available commercially. Our findings demonstrate 
that SUMO protease 1/SUMO-fusion system may be preferable to DUB/Ub-fusion. 
Enhanced expression and solubility of proteins fused to SUMO combined with broad 
specificity and highly efficient cleavage properties of the SUMO protease 1 
indicates that SUMO-fusion technology will become a useful tool in purification 
of proteins and peptides.

DOI: 10.1023/B:JSFG.0000029237.70316.52
PMID: 15263846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Sep 30;478(4):1647-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.08.174. Epub 2016 Aug 31.

Application of SGT1-Hsp90 chaperone complex for soluble expression of NOD1 LRR 
domain in E. coli.

Hong TJ(1), Hahn JS(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 1 
Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea.
(2)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 1 
Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
hahnjs@snu.ac.kr.

NOD1 is an intracellular sensor of innate immunity which is related to a number 
of inflammatory diseases. NOD1 is known to be difficult to express and purify 
for structural and biochemical studies. Based on the fact that Hsp90 and its 
cochaperone SGT1 are necessary for the stabilization and activation of NOD1 in 
mammals, SGT1 was chosen as a fusion partner of the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) 
domain of NOD1 for its soluble expression in Escherichia coli. Fusion of human 
SGT1 (hSGT1) to NOD1 LRR significantly enhanced the solubility, and the fusion 
protein was stabilized by coexpression of mouse Hsp90α. The expression level of 
hSGT1-NOD1 LRR was further enhanced by supplementation of rare codon tRNAs and 
exchange of antibiotic marker genes.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.08.174
PMID: 27591899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Toxicon. 2021 Apr 30;194:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2021.01.008. Epub 2021 Feb 
11.

Bacterial expression of a snake venom metalloproteinase inhibitory protein from 
the North American opossum (D.virginiana).

Werner RM(1), Miling LM(2), Elliott BM(2), Hawes MR(2), Wickens JM(3), Webber 
DE(4).

Author information:
(1)Grand Valley State University, Department of Chemistry, 1 Campus Dr. 312 
Padnos Hall, Allendale, MI, 49415, United States. Electronic address: 
wernerro@gvsu.edu.
(2)Grand Valley State University, Department of Chemistry, 1 Campus Dr. 312 
Padnos Hall, Allendale, MI, 49415, United States.
(3)Lake Superior State University, Department of Chemistry, 650 W. Easterday 
Ave., Sault Ste. Marie, MI, 49583, United States; Michigan State University 
College of Human Medicine, 965 Fee Rd A110, East Lansing, MI, 48824, United 
States.
(4)Lake Superior State University, Department of Chemistry, 650 W. Easterday 
Ave., Sault Ste. Marie, MI, 49583, United States; Charles River Laboratories, 
54943 N. Main St., Mattawan, MI, 49071, United States.

A variety of opossum species are resistant to snake venoms due to the presence 
of antihemorrhagic and antimyotoxic acidic serum glycoproteins that inhibit 
several toxic venom components. Two virtually identical antihemorrhagic proteins 
isolated from either the North American opossum (D. virginiana) or the South 
American big-eared opossum (D. aurita), termed oprin or DM43 respectively, 
inhibit specific snake venom metalloproteinases (SVMPs). A better understanding 
of the structure of these proteins may provide useful insight to determine their 
mechanism of action and for the development of therapeutics against the global 
health concern of snake-bite envenomation. The aim of this work is to produce a 
recombinant snake venom metalloproteinase inhibitor (SVMPI) similar to the above 
opossum proteins in Escherichia coli and determine if this bacterially produced 
protein inhibits the proteolytic properties of Western Diamondback rattlesnake 
(C. atrox) venom. The resulting heterologous SVMPI was produced with either a 
6-Histidine or maltose binding protein (MBP) affinity tag on either the 
C-terminus or N-terminus of the protein, respectively. The presence of the 
solubility enhancing MBP affinity tag resulted in significantly more soluble 
protein expression. The inhibitory activity was measured using two complementary 
assays and the MBP labeled SVMPI showed 7-fold less activity as compared to the 
6-Histidine labeled SVMPI. Thus, the bacterially derived SVMPI with an unlabeled 
N-terminus showed high inhibitory activity (IC50 = 4.5 μM). The use of a 
solubility enhancing MBP fusion protein construct appears to be a productive way 
to express sufficient quantities of this mammalian protein in E. coli for 
further study.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2021.01.008
PMID: 33581173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2011 Jul;21(7):719-27. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1010.10047.

Effect of adjuvants on antibody titer of synthetic recombinant light chain of 
botulinum neurotoxin type B and its diagnostic potential for botulism.

Jain S(1), Ponmariappan S, Kumar O, Singh L.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Division, Defence Research and Development Establishment, 
Jhansi Road, Gwalior 474 002, Madhya Pradesh, India.

Botulism is a neuroparalytic disease caused by Clostridium botulinum, which 
produces seven (A-G) antigenically diverse neurotoxins (BoNTs). BoNTs are the 
most poisonous substances known to humans, with a median lethal dose (LD₅₀) of 
approximately 1 ng/kg of body weight. Owing to their extreme potency and 
lethality, they have the potential to be used as a bioterrorism agent. The mouse 
bioassay is the gold standard for the detection of botulinum neurotoxins; 
however, it requires at least 3-4 days for completion. Attempts have been made 
to develop an ELISA-based detection system, which is potentially an easier and 
more rapid method of botulinum neurotoxin detection. The present study was 
designed using a synthetic gene approach. The synthetic gene encoding the 
catalytic domain of BoNT serotype B from amino acids 1-450 was constructed with 
PCR overlapping primers (BoNT/B LC), cloned in a pQE30 UA vector, and expressed 
in an E. coli M15 host system. Recombinant protein production was optimized at 
0.5 mM IPTG final concentration, 4 h post induction, resulting in a maximum 
yield of recombinant proteins. The immunogenic nature of the recombinant BoNT/B 
LC protein was evaluated by ELISA. Antibodies were raised in BALB/c mice using 
various adjuvants. A significant rise in antibody titer (p<0.05) was observed in 
the Alum group, followed by the Titermax Classic group, Freund's adjuvant, and 
the Titermax Gold group. These developed high-titer antibodies may prove useful 
for the detection of botulinum neurotoxins in food and clinical samples.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1010.10047
PMID: 21791958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Microb Cell Fact. 2019 Nov 11;18(1):197. doi: 10.1186/s12934-019-1247-1.

Aliivibrio wodanis as a production host: development of genetic tools for 
expression of cold-active enzymes.

Söderberg JJ(1), Grgic M(1), Hjerde E(1), Haugen P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Center for Bioinformatics (SfB) and The Norwegian 
Structural Biology Centre (NorStruct), Faculty of Science and Technology, 
UiT -The Arctic University of Norway, 9037, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Center for Bioinformatics (SfB) and The Norwegian 
Structural Biology Centre (NorStruct), Faculty of Science and Technology, 
UiT -The Arctic University of Norway, 9037, Tromsø, Norway. peik.haugen@uit.no.

BACKGROUND: Heterologous production of cold-adapted proteins currently 
represents one of the greatest bottlenecks in the ongoing bioprospecting efforts 
to find new enzymes from low-temperature environments, such as, the polar oceans 
that represent essentially untapped resources in this respect. In mesophilic 
expression hosts such as Escherichia coli, cold-adapted enzymes often form 
inactive aggregates. Therefore it is necessary to develop new low-temperature 
expression systems, including identification of new host organisms and 
complementary genetic tools. Psychrophilic bacteria, including Pseudoalteromonas 
haloplanktis, Shewanella and Rhodococcus erythropolis have all been explored as 
candidates for such applications. However to date none of these have found 
widespread use as efficient expression systems, or are commercially available. 
In the present work we explored the use of the sub-Arctic bacterium Aliivibrio 
wodanis as a potential host for heterologous expression of cold-active enzymes.
RESULTS: We tested 12 bacterial strains, as well as available vectors, promoters 
and reporter systems. We used RNA-sequencing to determine the most highly 
expressed genes and their intrinsic promoters in A. wodanis. In addition we 
examined a novel 5'-fusion to stimulate protein production and solubility. 
Finally we tested production of a set of "difficult-to-produce" enzymes 
originating from various bacteria and one Archaea. Our results show that 
cold-adapted enzymes can be produced in soluble and active form, even in cases 
when protein production failed in E. coli due to the formation of inclusion 
bodies. Moreover, we identified a 60-bp/20-aa fragment from the 5'-end of the 
AW0309160_00174 gene that stimulates expression of Green Fluorescent Protein and 
improves production of cold-active enzymes when used as a 5'-fusion. A 25-aa 
peptide from the same protein enhanced secretion of a 25-aa-sfGFP fusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate the use of A. wodanis and associated genetic 
tools for low-temperature protein production and indicate that A. wodanis 
represents an interesting platform for further development of a protein 
production system that can promote further cold-enzyme discoveries.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-019-1247-1
PMCID: PMC6844050
PMID: 31711487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


923. Microb Cell Fact. 2017 Dec 21;16(1):231. doi: 10.1186/s12934-017-0845-z.

A novel Ffu fusion system for secretory expression of heterologous proteins in 
Escherichia coli.

Cheng C(1), Wu S(2), Cui L(1), Wu Y(1), Jiang T(3), He B(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, No. 30 South Puzhu Road, Nanjing, 211816, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Wuxi AppTec (Suzhou) Testing Technology Co.,Ltd., 1336 Wuzhong Avenue, 
Xinzhiyuan Building B, Wuzhong District, Suzhou, 215104, Jiangsu, China.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nanjing Tech University, No. 30 South 
Puzhu Road, Nanjing, 211816, People's Republic of China.
(4)School of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech 
University, No. 30 South Puzhu Road, Nanjing, 211816, People's Republic of 
China. bingfanghe@njtech.edu.cn.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nanjing Tech University, No. 30 South 
Puzhu Road, Nanjing, 211816, People's Republic of China. 
bingfanghe@njtech.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The high level of excretion and rapid folding ability of 
β-fructofuranosidase (β-FFase) in Escherichia coli has suggested that β-FFase 
from Arthrobacter arilaitensis NJEM01 can be developed as a fusion partner.
METHODS: Based on the modified Wilkinson and Harrison algorithm and the 
preliminary verification of the solubility-enhancing ability of β-FFase 
truncations, three β-FFase truncations (i.e., Ffu209, Ffu217, and Ffu312) with a 
native signal peptide were selected as novel Ffu fusion tags. Four 
difficult-to-express protein models; i.e., CARDS TX, VEGFR-2, RVs and Omp85 were 
used in the assessment of Ffu fusion tags.
RESULTS: The expression levels and solubility of each protein were markedly 
enhanced by the Ffu fusion system. Each protein had a favorable Ffu tag. The Ffu 
fusion tags performed preferably when compared with the well-known fusion tags 
MBP and NusA. Strikingly, it was confirmed that Ffu fusion proteins were 
secreted into the periplasm by the periplasmic analysis and N-amino acid 
sequence analysis. Further, efficient excretion of HV3 with defined 
anti-thrombin activity was obtained when it was fused with the Ffu312 tag. 
Moreover, HV3 remained soluble and demonstrated notable anti-thrombin activity 
after the removal of the Ffu312 tag by enterokinase.
CONCLUSIONS: Observations from this work not only complements fusion 
technologies, but also develops a novel and effective secretory system to solve 
key issues that include inclusion bodies and degradation when expressing 
heterologous proteins in E. coli, especially for proteins that require disulfide 
bond formation, eukaryotic-secreted proteins, and membrane-associated proteins.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-017-0845-z
PMCID: PMC5740907
PMID: 29268791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2009 Jul;296(1):60-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6968.2009.01616.x. Epub 2009 May 5.

Human G-CSF synthesis using stress-responsive bacterial proteins.

Song JA(1), Han KY, Park JS, Seo HS, Ahn KY, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, 
South Korea.

We previously reported that under the stress condition caused by the addition of 
2-hydroxyethyl disulfide, a thiol-specific oxidant, to growing cultures of 
Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), a population of stress-responsive proteins 
[peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase B (PpiB), bacterioferritin (Bfr), putative 
HTH-type transcriptional regulator yjdC (YjdC), dihydrofolate reductase (FolA), 
chemotaxis protein cheZ (CheZ), and glutathione synthetase (GshB)] were 
significantly upregulated when compared with the nonstress condition. When those 
stress-responsive proteins were used as fusion partners for the expression of 
human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (hG-CSF), the solubility of hG-CSF 
was dramatically enhanced in E. coli cytoplasm, whereas almost all of the 
directly expressed hG-CSF were aggregated to inclusion bodies. In addition, the 
spectra of circular dichroism measured with the purified hG-CSF were identical 
to that of standard hG-CSF, implying that the synthesized hG-CSF has native 
conformation. These results indicate that the bacterial stress-responsive 
proteins could be potent fusion expression partners for aggregation-prone 
heterologous proteins in E. coli cytoplasm.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2009.01616.x
PMCID: PMC7110128
PMID: 19459971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Mol Biotechnol. 2020 Jan;62(1):43-55. doi: 10.1007/s12033-019-00224-z.

A Novel Nanobody Scaffold Optimized for Bacterial Expression and Suitable for 
the Construction of Ribosome Display Libraries.

Ferrari D(1)(2), Garrapa V(3), Locatelli M(4), Bolchi A(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences and Environmental Sustainability, 
University of Parma, Parco area delle Scienze, 11A, 43124, Parma, Italy. 
davide.ferrari@unipr.it.
(2)San Raffaele Hospital, via Olgettina 60, 20132, Milan, Italy. 
davide.ferrari@unipr.it.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences and Environmental Sustainability, 
University of Parma, Parco area delle Scienze, 11A, 43124, Parma, Italy.
(4)San Raffaele Hospital, via Olgettina 60, 20132, Milan, Italy.
(5)Biopharmanet-Tec Laboratory, University of Parma, 43124, Parma, Italy.

Single-domain antigen-binding fragments of camelid antibodies, known as VHHs or 
nanobodies, are widely used affinity reagents. However, their production 
involving animal immunization is time- and resource-intensive. Starting from a 
sequence dataset of llama VHHs, we designed a novel scaffold, based on conserved 
framework sequences, suitable for bacterial nanobody expression and synthetic 
library construction. The consensus scaffold was validated by grafting the CDRs 
from two known nanobodies. While maintaining their binding properties, the two 
chimeric nanobodies showed higher levels of expression and solubility in E. coli 
when compared to the corresponding wild types. A proof-of-concept synthetic 
combinatorial library, suitable for ribosome display (RD) selection, was 
obtained by encoding three randomized complementarity determining regions within 
the consensus framework. The library, made of linear DNA fragments, has an 
estimated complexity of > 1012 that is three orders of magnitude higher than 
common phage display libraries. The bacterial expression of several library 
clones showed a high production of soluble recombinant proteins. The high 
complexity of the library, confirmed by sequencing of a subset of clones, as 
well as a preliminary RD selection of a maltose binding protein binder, 
indicated this approach as a starting point in the construction of synthetic 
combinatorial libraries to be used as animal-free tools for the low-cost 
selection of target-specific nanobodies.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-019-00224-z
PMID: 31720928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Biomacromolecules. 2005 May-Jun;6(3):1367-74. doi: 10.1021/bm049371o.

Investigations on the solubility behavior of cyanophycin. Solubility of 
cyanophycin in solutions of simple inorganic salts.

Füser G(1), Steinbüchel A.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Molekulare Mikrobiologie und Biotechnologie, Westfälische 
Wilhelms-Universität Münster, Corrensstrasse 3, 48149 Münster, Germany.

On the basis of a previous report on the occurrence of water-soluble cyanophycin 
(CGP, cyanophycin granule polypeptide) in a recombinant strain of Escherichia 
coli expressing the cyanophycin synthetase (CphA) of Desulfitobacterium 
hafniense published by others, the conditions of its production were 
investigated in this study. Although the incubation temperature, aeration level, 
and NaCl concentration during cultivation had effects on the in vivo production 
of water-soluble CGP, it could be isolated as a major variant irrespective of 
the cultivation conditions. The occurrence of the soluble variant was also not 
dependent on the E. coli host or on the origin of cphA. Furthermore, it was 
shown that water-insoluble CGP can be in vitro solubilized to extents of up to 
about 80% (w/w) in solutions of different inorganic salts such as LiCl, NaCl, 
KCl, RbCl, KBr, MgCl(2), or CaCl(2). Evidence was obtained that the salt ions 
bind tightly to CGP. If the ions were not removed from the salt solution by 
dialysis or dilution, the CGP remained stable in solution. This method to 
solubilize water-insoluble CGP could also be applied to high concentrations of 
the polymer. CGP that remained insoluble after the first treatment could only 
marginally be solubilized in following treatments. The polydisperse CGP 
molecules were solubilized to the same extent over the whole molecular weight 
range with no preference of a particular molecular weight.

DOI: 10.1021/bm049371o
PMID: 15877354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2010 Mar;86(2):633-9. doi: 10.1007/s00253-009-2305-0. 
Epub 2009 Oct 30.

DnaK/DnaJ-assisted recombinant protein production in Trichoplusia ni larvae.

Martínez-Alonso M(1), Gómez-Sebastián S, Escribano JM, Saiz JC, Ferrer-Miralles 
N, Villaverde A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biotechnology and Biomedicine, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Barcelona, Spain.

The DnaK/DnaJ Escherichia coli chaperone pair, co-produced along with 
recombinant proteins, has been widely used to assist protein folding in 
bacterial cells, although with poor consensus about the ultimate effect on 
protein quality and its general applicability. Here, we have evaluated for the 
first time these bacterial proteins as folding modulators in a highly promising 
recombinant protein platform based on insect larvae. Intriguingly, the bacterial 
chaperones enhanced the solubility of a reporter, misfolding-prone GFP, doubling 
the yield of recombinant protein that can be recovered from the larvae extracts 
in a production process. This occurs without negative effects on the yield of 
total protein (extractable plus insoluble), indicative of a proteolytic 
stability of the chaperone substrate. It is in contrast with what has been 
observed in bacteria for the same reporter protein, which is dramatically 
degraded in a DnaK-dependent manner. The reported data are discussed in the 
context of the biotechnological potential and applicability of prokaryotic 
chaperones in complex, eukaryotic factories for recombinant protein production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-009-2305-0
PMID: 19876625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Vet Microbiol. 2010 Aug 26;144(3-4):473-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2010.01.005. 
Epub 2010 Jan 28.

Identification and characterization of spiralin-like protein SLP25 from 
Spiroplasma eriocheiris.

Meng Q(1), Ou J, Ji H, Jiang X, Gu W, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Biodiversity & Biotechnology, College of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, 1 Wenyuan Road, Nanjing 210046, China.

Spiroplasma eriocheiris causes tremor disease (TD) of Chinese mitten crab 
Eriocheir sinensis, but little is known about the molecular characterization of 
this pathogen. The present study was undertaken to identify a unique gene of 
spiroplasma, spiralin-like protein (SLP25) and analyze its character. The 
full-length DNA of SLP25 is 699 bp encodes a protein of 232 amino acid residues. 
The theoretical isoelectric point and molecular weight for the SLP25 are 4.50 
and 24.67 kDa, respectively. The similarity of SLP25 deduced amino acid 
sequence, shared with the spiralin from other species, indicated that the gene 
might be a member of the spiralin family. After cloning the SLP25, the gene was 
site-mutated from TGA to TGG and transcribed in E. coli to full expression of 
the recombinant SLP25. Anti-SLP25 serum was prepared by immunization of rabbits. 
The titer of anti-SLP25 serum was about 1:20000. A SLP25 band was detected by 
anti-SLP25 antibody using the total proteins of S. eriocheiris. A specific 
immunoreactive band was detected when anti-S. eriocheiris serum was opposed to 
the recombinant protein. This finding suggests that SLP25 could be a good 
antigen for immunodiagnosis of TD of E. sinensis.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2010.01.005
PMID: 20153936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Apr;168:105551. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105551. Epub 
2019 Dec 12.

Cloning, expression and characterization of a thermo-alkali-stable xylanase from 
Aspergillus oryzae LC1 in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3).

Bhardwaj N(1), Verma VK(1), Chaturvedi V(2), Verma P(3).

Author information:
(1)Bioprocess and Bioenergy Laboratory, Department of Microbiology, Central 
University of Rajasthan, NH-8, Bandarsindri, Kishangarh, Ajmer, 305817, India.
(2)SMW College, MG Kashi Vidyapith, Varanasi, 221005, U.P, India.
(3)Bioprocess and Bioenergy Laboratory, Department of Microbiology, Central 
University of Rajasthan, NH-8, Bandarsindri, Kishangarh, Ajmer, 305817, India. 
Electronic address: vermaprad@yahoo.com.

In the present investigation, cloning and overexpression of xylanase (XynF1), 
the main xylanase of A. oryzae LC1, was performed in prokaryotic system E. coli 
BL21(DE3) to produce recombinant xylanase with high titer of specific activity 
(1037.3 U/mg), which was 9.3-fold higher than the native strain. Further, the 
recombinant XynF1 of size 37 kDa was purified using Ni2+-NTA resins followed by 
cation exchange chromatography, which showed an 1.8-fold increase in purity with 
71.4% yield. The r-XynF1 exhibited a wide range of activity at different pH 
(3.0-10.0) range and temperature (30-70 °C) with an optimum pH at 5.0 and 
temperature at 30 °C. The results from the current study, clearly demonstrate 
that this is an effective method to generate a recombinant enzyme with improved 
activity, making it useful for possible industrial applications.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105551
PMID: 31838156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


930. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2018 Apr;115(4):1014-1027. doi: 10.1002/bit.26521. Epub 2018 
Jan 8.

Engineering tunable biosensors for monitoring putrescine in Escherichia coli.

Chen XF(1), Xia XX(1), Lee SY(2), Qian ZG(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Metabolic and Biomolecular Engineering National Research Laboratory, 
Department of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering (BK21 Program), BioProcess 
Engineering Research Center, Bioinformatics Research Center, and Institute for 
the BioCentury, KAIST, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Biosensors can be a powerful tool for real-time monitoring of specific small 
molecules and for precise control of gene expression in biological systems. 
Thus, biosensors have attracted much attention for monitoring increasing number 
of molecules. However, strategies to tune the properties of biosensors remain 
less explored, which might restrict their wide applicability. Here we report the 
development of tunable biosensors for monitoring putrescine, an important member 
of biological polyamines, in Escherichia coli. The native putrescine-responsive 
PuuR repressor protein was employed as a sensing component, and its cognate 
operator was installed in engineered promoters to control the expression of 
downstream green fluorescent protein (GFP) mut3 as a reporter protein. The 
engineered biosensors were specific for putrescine, and the response time could 
be modulated by altering growth medium of the biosensor strains. In addition, 
the response dynamics and detection ranges of the biosensors can be tuned at the 
genetic level by modulation of PuuR expression, and by manipulation of the 
chromosomal genes involved in putrescine biosynthesis. To demonstrate utility of 
the biosensors, we were able to monitor the changes of endogenous putrescine 
levels caused by genetic manipulations. Furthermore, a link between the 
excretory putrescine titer and intracellular GFP fluorescence was established 
for an E. coli strain that was engineered for improved putrescine biosynthesis 
and excretion. This study provides a strategy for engineering synthetic 
biosensor circuit for monitoring and tuning the dynamics in sensing putrescine, 
which can be generally applicable for monitoring other chemicals through taking 
a similar approach in circuit design.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26521
PMID: 29251347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Curr Protoc Protein Sci. 2016 Apr 1;84:6.13.1-6.13.24. doi: 
10.1002/0471140864.ps0613s84.

Obtaining Soluble Folded Proteins from Inclusion Bodies Using Sarkosyl, Triton 
X-100, and CHAPS: Application to LB and M9 Minimal Media.

Massiah MA(1), Wright KM(1), Du H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.

This unit describes a straightforward and efficient method of using sarkosyl to 
solubilize and recover difficult recombinant proteins, such as GST- and His6 
-tagged fusion proteins, that are overexpressed in E. coli. This protocol is 
especially useful for rescuing recombinant proteins overexpressed in M9 minimal 
medium. Sarkosyl added to lysis buffers helps with both protein solubility and 
cell lysis. Higher percentage sarkosyl (up to 10%) can extract >95% of soluble 
protein from inclusion bodies. In the case of sarkosyl-solubilized GST-fusion 
proteins, batch-mode affinity purification requires addition of a specific ratio 
of Triton X-100 and CHAPS, while sarkosyl-solubilized His6 -tagged fusion 
proteins can be directly purified on Ni(2+) resin columns. Proteins purified by 
this method could be widely used in biological assays, structure analysis and 
mass spectrum assay.

Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/0471140864.ps0613s84
PMID: 27038270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;26(2):110-2, 
118.

[Cloning and expression of PbTIP analogous gene from Plasmodium berghei ANKA and 
preparation of its polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Li YH, Zhao Y, Liu ZX, Huang YX, Mao ZX, Xue CF.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express a novel protein analogous to TIP (T cell 
immunomodulatory protein) of Plasmodium berghei ANKA and prepare its polyclonal 
antibody.
METHODS: The PbTIP encoding nucleotide sequence was searched from the Plasmodium 
berghei genomic database and amplified by PCR. The gene was sub-cloned into 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX4T-1 and expressed in E.coli BL21 (DE3). After 
induction by IPTG, the expression of PbTIP-GST fusion protein was characterized 
by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The inclusion bodies of GST-PbTIP fusion 
protein were injected into BALB/c mouse. Anti-sera were identified by indirect 
fluorescent antibody test and western blotting.
RESULTS: The PbTIP-GST fusion protein was successfully expressed in the form of 
inclusion bodies, by controlling the temperature and concentration of IPTG. 
Anti-PbTIP-GST sera were acquired with high titer. The sera specifically 
recognized the PbTIP with a band of 60 000 in P.berghei infected erythrocyte 
protein.
CONCLUSION: PbTIP/GST fusion protein and polyclonal antibody have been obtained.

PMID: 24812812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2014 
Aug;32(4):289-92.

[Immunoreactivity and immunogenicity analysis of the recombinant cathepsin 
L-like protease of Fasciola hepatica in SD rats].

[Article in Chinese]

Ran XH, Wen XB, Wang CR, Li XJ, Wei XM.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the immunoreactivity of recombinant cathepsin L-like 
proteases (CatL) protein of Fasciola hepatica and its immunogenicity in SD rats.
METHODS: The E. coli BL21(DE3) cells harbouring recombinant plasmid 
pET30a-FhCatL were inoculated in LB medium, and the protein expression was 
induced with IPTG. The recombinant protein FhCatL was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and 
the immunoreactivity was identified by Western blotting with sera from Fasciola 
hepatica-infected goat as the primary antibody. Twenty SD rats were randomly 
divided into immunized group and adjuvant control group. SD rats in immunized 
group were injected subcutaneously with 200 microg of purified FhCatL protein. 
All the rats received three immunizations at 3-week intervals. The adjuvant 
control group with 10 SD rats received only adjuvants emulsified with the same 
amount of PBS. Serum samples were collected at the day before the second and 
final immunization, 3, 6, and 9 weeks after the final immunization. The IgG 
antibody of rats' sera was examined by indirect ELISA and spleen lymphocyte 
proliferation (SLP) was tested by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT).
RESULTS: The molecular weight of purified FhCatL was about Mr 42,000. The 
recombinant FhCatL was recognized by pool sera of goats naturally infected with 
F. hepatica. The titer of specific antibody IgG in SD rats induced by the 
recombinant protein against CatL protein was significantly higher than that of 
the control, and the antibody titer reached the peak at three weeks after the 
final immunization (1 : 102,400). The stimulation index of splenocytes in 
immunized group was 2.176 +/- 0.047, which was significantly higher than that of 
the control (1.171 +/- 0.032) (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The recombinant FhCatL protein bears stronger immnoreactivity and 
immunogenicity.

PMID: 25518593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Bioinformatics. 2021 Jan 8;37(1):23-8. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa1102. 
Online ahead of print.

SoluProt: Prediction of Soluble Protein Expression in Escherichia coli.

Hon J(1)(2)(3), Marusiak M(3), Martinek T(3), Kunka A(1)(2), Zendulka J(3), 
Bednar D(1)(2), Damborsky J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Loschmidt Laboratories, Centre for Toxic Compounds in the Environment RECETOX 
and Department of Experimental Biology, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, 
625 00 Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)International Clinical Research Center, St. Anne's University Hospital Brno, 
656 91 Brno, Czech Republic.
(3)IT4Innovations Centre of Excellence, Faculty of Information Technology, Brno 
University of Technology, 612 66 Brno, Czech Republic.

MOTIVATION: Poor protein solubility hinders the production of many therapeutic 
and industrially useful proteins. Experimental efforts to increase solubility 
are plagued by low success rates and often reduce biological activity. 
Computational prediction of protein expressibility and solubility in Escherichia 
coli using only sequence information could reduce the cost of experimental 
studies by enabling prioritisation of highly soluble proteins.
RESULTS: A new tool for sequence-based prediction of soluble protein expression 
in Escherichia coli, SoluProt, was created using the gradient boosting machine 
technique with the TargetTrack database as a training set. When evaluated 
against a balanced independent test set derived from the NESG database, 
SoluProt's accuracy of 58.5% and AUC of 0.62 exceeded those of a suite of 
alternative solubility prediction tools. There is also evidence that it could 
significantly increase the success rate of experimental protein studies. 
SoluProt is freely available as a standalone program and a user-friendly 
webserver at https://loschmidt.chemi.muni.cz/soluprot/.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: https://loschmidt.chemi.muni.cz/soluprot/.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author(s) (2021). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights 
reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa1102
PMCID: PMC8034534
PMID: 33416864


935. Protein Sci. 2019 Apr;28(4):808-822. doi: 10.1002/pro.3575. Epub 2019 Feb 4.

A practical method for efficient and optimal production of 
Seleno-methionine-labeled recombinant protein complexes in the insect cells.

Wenzel S(1), Imasaki T(1), Takagi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Indiana University School 
of Medicine, 635 Barnhill Drive, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46202.

The use of Seleno-methionine (SeMet) incorporated protein crystals for single or 
multi-wavelength anomalous diffraction (SAD or MAD) to facilitate phasing has 
become almost synonymous with modern X-ray crystallography. The anomalous 
signals from SeMets can be used for phasing as well as sequence markers for 
subsequent model building. The production of large quantities of SeMet 
incorporated recombinant proteins is relatively straightforward when expressed 
in Escherichia coli. In contrast, production of SeMet substituted recombinant 
proteins expressed in the insect cells is not as robust due to the toxicity of 
SeMet in eukaryotic systems. Previous protocols for SeMet-incorporation in the 
insect cells are laborious, and more suited for secreted proteins. In addition, 
these protocols have generally not addressed the SeMet toxicity issue, and 
typically result in low recovery of the labeled proteins. Here we report that 
SeMet toxicity can be circumvented by fully infecting insect cells with 
baculovirus. Quantitatively controlling infection levels using our Titer 
Estimation of Quality Control (TEQC) method allow for the incorporation of 
substantial amounts of SeMet, resulting in an efficient and optimal production 
of labeled recombinant protein complexes. With the method described here, we 
were able to consistently reach incorporation levels of about 75% and protein 
yield of 60-90% compared with native protein expression.

© 2019 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.3575
PMCID: PMC6423997
PMID: 30663186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Microb Cell Fact. 2022 Mar 15;21(1):40. doi: 10.1186/s12934-022-01766-9.

Evaluation of factors influencing expression and extraction of recombinant 
bacteriophage endolysins in Escherichia coli.

Balaban CL(1), Suárez CA(1), Boncompain CA(1), Peressutti-Bacci N(1), Ceccarelli 
EA(2), Morbidoni HR(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Microbiología Molecular, Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Rosario, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular de Rosario, Consejo Nacional de 
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Rosario, Argentina.
(3)Laboratorio de Microbiología Molecular, Facultad de Ciencias Médicas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Rosario, Argentina. morbiatny@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Endolysins are peptidoglycan hydrolases with promising use as 
environment-friendly antibacterials mainly when used topically. However, in 
general, endolysin expression is hampered by its low solubility. Thus, a 
critical point in endolysin industrial production is optimizing their 
expression, including improvement of solubility and recovery from cell extracts.
RESULTS: We report the expression of two endolysins encoded in the genome of 
phages infecting Staphylococcus aureus. Expression was optimized through changes 
in the concentration of the inducer and growth temperature during the 
expression. Usually, only 30-40% of the total endolysin was recovered in the 
soluble fraction. Co-expression of molecular chaperones (DnaK, GroEL) or N-term 
fusion tags endowed with increased solubility (DsbC, Trx, Sumo) failed to 
improve that yield substantially. Inclusion of osmolytes (NaCl, CaCl2, mannitol, 
glycine betaine, glycerol and trehalose) or tensioactives (Triton X-100, Tween 
20, Nonidet P-40, CHAPS, N-lauroylsarcosine) in the cell disruption system (in 
the absence of any molecular chaperone) gave meager improvements excepted by 
N-lauroylsarcosine which increased recovery to 54% of the total endolysin 
content.
CONCLUSION: This is the first attempt to systematically analyze methods for 
increasing yields of recombinant endolysins. We herein show that neither 
solubility tags nor molecular chaperones co-expression are effective to that 
end, while induction temperature, (His)6-tag location and lysis buffer additives 
(e.g. N-lauroylsarcosine), are sensible strategies to obtain higher levels of 
soluble S. aureus endolysins.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-022-01766-9
PMCID: PMC8922839
PMID: 35292023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


937. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2011 Nov;77(22):8114-28. doi: 10.1128/AEM.05421-11. Epub 
2011 Sep 23.

Membrane stresses induced by overproduction of free fatty acids in Escherichia 
coli.

Lennen RM(1), Kruziki MA, Kumar K, Zinkel RA, Burnum KE, Lipton MS, Hoover SW, 
Ranatunga DR, Wittkopp TM, Marner WD 2nd, Pfleger BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1415 Engineering Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

Microbially produced fatty acids are potential precursors to high-energy-density 
biofuels, including alkanes and alkyl ethyl esters, by either catalytic 
conversion of free fatty acids (FFAs) or enzymatic conversion of acyl-acyl 
carrier protein or acyl-coenzyme A intermediates. Metabolic engineering efforts 
aimed at overproducing FFAs in Escherichia coli have achieved less than 30% of 
the maximum theoretical yield on the supplied carbon source. In this work, the 
viability, morphology, transcript levels, and protein levels of a strain of E. 
coli that overproduces medium-chain-length FFAs was compared to an engineered 
control strain. By early stationary phase, an 85% reduction in viable cell 
counts and exacerbated loss of inner membrane integrity were observed in the 
FFA-overproducing strain. These effects were enhanced in strains endogenously 
producing FFAs compared to strains exposed to exogenously fed FFAs. Under two 
sets of cultivation conditions, long-chain unsaturated fatty acid content 
greatly increased, and the expression of genes and proteins required for 
unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis were significantly decreased. Membrane 
stresses were further implicated by increased expression of genes and proteins 
of the phage shock response, the MarA/Rob/SoxS regulon, and the nuo and cyo 
operons of aerobic respiration. Gene deletion studies confirmed the importance 
of the phage shock proteins and Rob for maintaining cell viability; however, 
little to no change in FFA titer was observed after 24 h of cultivation. The 
results of this study serve as a baseline for future targeted attempts to 
improve FFA yields and titers in E. coli.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.05421-11
PMCID: PMC3208990
PMID: 21948837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Anal Biochem. 2005 Nov 1;346(1):77-84. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2005.07.039. Epub 2005 
Aug 15.

Automated expression and solubility screening of His-tagged proteins in 96-well 
format.

Vincentelli R(1), Canaan S, Offant J, Cambillau C, Bignon C.

Author information:
(1)Architecture et Fonction des Macromolécules Biologiques, UMR 6098, 
CNRS/Universités d'Aix-Marseille I et II, Case 932, 163 Avenue de Luminy, 13288 
Marseille cedex 9, France.

A growing need for sensitive and high-throughput methods for screening the 
expression and solubility of recombinant proteins exists in structural genomics. 
Originally, the emergency solution was to use immediately available techniques 
such as manual lysis of expression cells followed by analysis of protein 
expression by gel electrophoresis. However, these handmade methods quickly 
proved to be unfit for the high-throughput demand of postgenomics, and it is now 
generally accepted that the long-term solution to this problem will be based on 
automation, on industrial standard-formatted experiments, and on downsizing 
samples and consumables. In agreement with this consensus, we have set up a 
fully automated method based on a dot-blot technology and using 96-well format 
consumables for assessing by immunodetection the amount of total and soluble 
recombinant histidine (His)-tagged proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. The 
method starts with the harvest of expression cells and ends with the display of 
solubility/expression results in milligrams of recombinant protein per liter of 
culture using a three-color code to assist analysis. The program autonomously 
processes 160 independent cultures at a time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2005.07.039
PMID: 16168382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Jul;72(1):113-24. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.03.004. Epub 
2010 Mar 15.

Secretion and proteolysis of heterologous proteins fused to the Escherichia coli 
maltose binding protein in Pichia pastoris.

Li Z(1), Leung W, Yon A, Nguyen J, Perez VC, Vu J, Giang W, Luong LT, Phan T, 
Salazar KA, Gomez SR, Au C, Xiang F, Thomas DW, Franz AH, Lin-Cereghino J, 
Lin-Cereghino GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of the Pacific, Stockton, CA 95211, USA.

The Escherichia coli maltose binding protein (MBP) has been utilized as a 
translational fusion partner to improve the expression of foreign proteins made 
in E. coli. When located N-terminal to its cargo protein, MBP increases the 
solubility of intracellular proteins and improves the export of secreted 
proteins in bacterial systems. We initially explored whether MBP would have the 
same effect in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris, a popular eukaryotic 
host for heterologous protein expression. When MBP was fused as an N-terminal 
partner to several C-terminal cargo proteins expressed in this yeast, 
proteolysis occurred between the two peptides, and MBP reached the extracellular 
region unattached to its cargo. However, in two of three instances, the cargo 
protein reached the extracellular region as well, and its initial attachment to 
MBP enhanced its secretion from the cell. Extensive mutagenesis of the spacer 
region between MBP and its C-terminal cargo protein could not inhibit the 
cleavage although it did cause changes in the protease target sites in the 
fusion proteins, as determined by mass spectrometry. Taken together, these 
results suggested that an uncharacterized P. pastoris protease attacked at 
different locations in the region C-terminal of the MBP domain, including the 
spacer and cargo regions, but the MBP domain could still act to enhance the 
secretion of certain cargo proteins.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.03.004
PMCID: PMC2860017
PMID: 20230898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 May 17;8(5):1153-1167. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00042. Epub 
2019 Apr 22.

Combining Protein and Metabolic Engineering Strategies for High-Level Production 
of O-Acetylhomoserine in Escherichia coli.

Wei L(1)(2)(3), Wang Q(1)(2)(3), Xu N(1)(2), Cheng J(1)(2), Zhou W(1)(2), Han 
G(4), Jiang H(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Ma Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology , Chinese Academy of Sciences , 
Tianjin 300308 , China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology , Chinese Academy of 
Sciences , Tianjin 300308 , China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100049 , China.
(4)School of Life Science and Biotechnology , Yangtze Normal University , 
Chongqing 408100 , China.

O-acetylhomoserine (OAH) is a promising platform chemical for the production of 
l-methionine and other valuable compounds. However, the relative low titer and 
yield of OAH greatly limit its industrial production and cost-effective 
application. In this study, we successfully constructed an efficient 
OAH-producing strain with high titer and yield by combining protein and 
metabolic engineering strategies in E. coli. Initially, an OAH-producing strain 
was created by reconstruction of biosynthetic pathway and deletion of 
degradation and competitive pathways, which accumulated 1.68 g/L of OAH. 
Subsequently, several metabolic engineering strategies were implemented to 
improve the production of OAH. The pathway flux of OAH was enhanced by 
eliminating byproduct accumulation, increasing oxaloacetate supply and promoting 
the biosynthesis of precursor homoserine, resulting in a 1.79-fold increase in 
OAH production. Moreover, protein engineering was applied to improve the 
properties of the rate-limiting enzyme homoserine acetyltransferase (MetXlm) 
based on evolutionary conservation analysis and structure-guided engineering. 
The resulting triple F147L-M182I-M240A mutant of MetXlm exhibited a 12.15-fold 
increase in specific activity, and the optimized expression of the MetXlm mutant 
led to a 57.14% improvement in OAH production. Furthermore, the precursor 
acetyl-CoA supply and NADPH generation were also enhanced to facilitate the 
biosynthesis of OAH by promoting CoA biosynthesis, overexpressing heterogeneous 
acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACS), and introducing NADP-dependent pyruvate 
dehydrogenase (PDH). Finally, the engineered strain OAH-7 produced 62.7 g/L of 
OAH with yield and productivity values of 0.45 g/g glucose and 1.08 g/L/h, 
respectively, in a 7.5 L fed-batch fermenter, which was the highest OAH 
production ever reported.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00042
PMID: 30973696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Microb Cell Fact. 2006 Sep 1;5:28. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-5-28.

The evaluation of the factors that cause aggregation during recombinant 
expression in E. coli is simplified by the employment of an 
aggregation-sensitive reporter.

Schultz T(1), Martinez L, de Marco A.

Author information:
(1)EMBL Scientific Core Facilities, Meyerhofstr, 1, D-69117, Heidelberg, 
Germany. tina_schultz@gmx.net

BACKGROUND: The yields of soluble recombinant proteins expressed in bacteria are 
often low due to the tendency of the heterologous proteins to form aggregates. 
Therefore, aggregation reporters have been envisaged to simplify the comparison 
among different expression conditions and to speed up the identification of 
suitable protocols that improve the solubility. The probe we used is composed by 
an IbpAB promoter specifically activated by protein aggregates fused to a 
sequence coding the beta-galactosidase, the activity of which becomes, 
therefore, indicative of the aggregation degree.
RESULTS: The collected data show that the probe is reliable in terms of 
reproducibility inside a range of experimental conditions and faster and more 
sensitive than the analysis methods based on SDS-PAGE and successive western 
blot. The beta-galactosidase probe was useful to identify which parameters could 
influence the aggregation of the model proteins and to set up an optimized 
expression protocol. The effect of growth temperature, induction modality, 
co-expression with molecular chaperones and addition of osmolytes on the 
accumulation of aggregates were evaluated following the beta-galactosidase 
activity. Interestingly, a significant correlation was observed between 
estimated decreased aggregation and higher yields of soluble protein. We also 
compared a set of expression vectors with various regulative features and found 
that the single characteristics, like promoter, copy number or polymerase, were 
not relevant for controlling the recombinant protein aggregation whilst the 
crucial factor resulted being the total expression rate of the system.
CONCLUSION: The aggregation reporter used in our experiments represents a useful 
tool to evaluate the different factors that can be modulated to optimize a 
recombinant expression protocol. Furthermore, the rapid estimation of the 
aggregation degree enables to discriminate this from other causes responsible 
for scarce recombinant yields.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-5-28
PMCID: PMC1564408
PMID: 16948849


942. Microorganisms. 2021 Jul 16;9(7):1520. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms9071520.

Microbial Production of Bioactive Retinoic Acid Using Metabolically Engineered 
Escherichia coli.

Han M(1), Lee PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Science and Technology, Ajou University, World 
Cup-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si 16499, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

Microbial production of bioactive retinoids, including retinol and retinyl 
esters, has been successfully reported. Previously, there are no reports on the 
microbial biosynthesis of retinoic acid. Two genes (blhSR and raldhHS) encoding 
retinoic acid biosynthesis enzymes [β-carotene 15,15'-oxygenase (Blh) and 
retinaldehyde dehydrogenase2 (RALDH2)] were synthetically redesigned for modular 
expression. Co-expression of the blhSR and raldhHS genes on the plasmid system 
in an engineered β-carotene-producing Escherichia coli strain produced 0.59 ± 
0.06 mg/L of retinoic acid after flask cultivation. Deletion of the ybbO gene 
encoding a promiscuous aldehyde reductase induced a 2.4-fold increase in 
retinoic acid production to 1.43 ± 0.06 mg/L. Engineering of the 5'-UTR sequence 
of the blhSR and raldhHS genes enhanced retinoic acid production to 3.46 ± 0.16 
mg/L. A batch culture operated at 37 °C, pH 7.0, and 50% DO produced up to 8.20 
± 0.05 mg/L retinoic acid in a bioreactor. As the construction and culture of 
retinoic acid-producing bacterial strains are still at an early stage in the 
development, further optimization of the expression level of the retinoic acid 
pathway genes, protein engineering of Blh and RALDH2, and culture optimization 
should synergistically increase the current titer of retinoic acid in E. coli.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms9071520
PMCID: PMC8305374
PMID: 34361955

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the study design; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


943. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 Jun;29(2):311-20. doi: 10.1016/s1046-5928(03)00063-9.

A less laborious approach to the high-throughput production of recombinant 
proteins in Escherichia coli using 2-liter plastic bottles.

Millard CS(1), Stols L, Quartey P, Kim Y, Dementieva I, Donnelly MI.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Research Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Bldg. 202/Rm. 
BE111, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, IL 60439, USA.

Contemporary approaches to biology often call for the high-throughput production 
of large amounts of numerous proteins for structural or functional studies. Even 
with the highly efficient protein expression systems developed in Escherichia 
coli, production of these proteins is laborious and time-consuming. We have 
simplified established protocols by the use of disposable culture vessels: 
common 2-liter polyethylene terephthalate beverage bottles. The bottles are 
inexpensive, fit conveniently in commonly available flask holders, and, because 
they are notched, provide sufficient aeration to support the growth of 
high-density cultures. The use of antibiotics and freshly prepared media 
alleviates the need for sterilization of media and significantly reduces the 
labor involved. Uninoculated controls exhibited no growth during the time 
required for protein expression in experimental cultures. The yield, solubility, 
activity, and pattern of crystallization of proteins expressed in bottles were 
comparable to those obtained under conventional culture conditions. After use, 
the bottles are discarded, reducing the risk of cross-contamination of 
subsequent cultures. The approach appears to be suitable for high-throughput 
production of proteins for structural or functional studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s1046-5928(03)00063-9
PMID: 12767824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2009 Sep 1;104(1):134-42. doi: 10.1002/bit.22369.

Step change in the efficiency of centrifugation through cell engineering: 
co-expression of Staphylococcal nuclease to reduce the viscosity of the 
bioprocess feedstock.

Balasundaram B(1), Nesbeth D, Ward JM, Keshavarz-Moore E, Bracewell DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Engineering, The Advanced Centre for Biochemical 
Engineering, University College London, London, UK.

Cell engineering to enable step change improvements in bioprocessing can be 
directed at targets other than increasing product titer. The physical properties 
of the process suspension such as viscosity, for example, have a major impact on 
various downstream processing unit operations. The release of chromosomal DNA 
during homogenization of Escherichia coli and its influence on viscosity is 
well-recognized. In this current article we demonstrate co-expression of 
Staphylococcus aureus nuclease in E. coli to reduce viscosity through 
auto-hydrolysis of nucleic acids. Viscosity reduction of up to 75% was achieved 
while the particle size distribution of cell debris was maintained approximately 
constant (d(50) = 0.5-0.6 microm). Critically, resultant step change 
improvements to the clarification performance under disc-stack centrifugation 
conditions are shown. The cell-engineered nuclease matched or exceeded the 
viscosity reduction performance seen with the addition of exogenous nuclease 
removing the expense and validation issues associated with such additions to a 
bioprocess. The resultant material dramatically altered performance in 
scale-down mimics of continuous disc-stack centrifugation. Laboratory scale data 
indicated that a fourfold reduction in the settling area of a disc-stack 
centrifuge can be expected due to a less viscous process stream achieved through 
nuclease co-expression with a recombinant protein.

(c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.22369
PMID: 19415775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Protein Sci. 2009 Dec;18(12):2537-49. doi: 10.1002/pro.262.

Mining mammalian genomes for folding competent proteins using Tat-dependent 
genetic selection in Escherichia coli.

Lim HK(1), Mansell TJ, Linderman SW, Fisher AC, Dyson MR, DeLisa MP.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
New York 14853, USA.

Recombinant expression of eukaryotic proteins in Escherichia coli is often 
limited by poor folding and solubility. To address this problem, we employed a 
recently developed genetic selection for protein folding and solubility based on 
the bacterial twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway to rapidly identify 
properly folded recombinant proteins or soluble protein domains of mammalian 
origin. The coding sequences for 29 different mammalian polypeptides were cloned 
as sandwich fusions between an N-terminal Tat export signal and a C-terminal 
selectable marker, namely beta-lactamase. Hence, expression of the selectable 
marker and survival on selective media was linked to Tat export of the target 
mammalian protein. Since the folding quality control feature of the Tat pathway 
prevents export of misfolded proteins, only correctly folded fusion proteins 
reached the periplasm and conferred cell survival. In general, the ability to 
confer growth was found to relate closely to the solubility profile and 
molecular weight of the protein, although other features such as number of 
contiguous hydrophobic amino acids and cysteine content may also be important. 
These results highlight the capacity of Tat selection to reveal the folding 
potential of mammalian proteins and protein domains without the need for 
structural or functional information about the target protein.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.262
PMCID: PMC2821272
PMID: 19830686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2003 Sep-Oct;37(5):916-23.

[Biosynthesis of mini-antibodies to human ferritin in plant and bacterial 
producers].

[Article in Russian]

Semeniuk EG(1), Stremovskiĭ OA, Orlova IV, Baladin TG, Nosov AM, Bur'ianov IaI, 
Deev SM, Petrov RV.

Author information:
(1)Branch of Shemyakin and Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Pushchino, Moscow Region, 142290 Russia. 
centaurea@mail.ru

A recombinant scFv antibody against human spleen ferritin was expressed as a 
barstar-fused protein in Escherichia coli and in Nicotiana tabacum plants and 
suspension cell cultures. As demonstrated by immunoblotting with antibarstar 
antibodies, direction of the recombinant protein to the endomembrane system of 
plant cells ensured its stability and solubility. Production of the recombinant 
protein did not differ between parental transgenic plants and their 
first-generation progeny. Fusion with barstar allowed not only immunochemical 
detection of the recombinant scFv antibody, but also their purification from the 
plant material by affinity chromatography with barnase-His6 immobilized on a 
metal-affinity carrier.

PMID: 14593930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Virus Res. 2002 Jun;86(1-2):133-41. doi: 10.1016/s0168-1702(02)00057-6.

Expression of Cardamom mosaic virus coat protein in Escherichia coli and its 
assembly into filamentous aggregates.

Jacob T(1), Usha R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biotechnology, School of Biotechnology, Madurai Kamaraj 
University, Madurai, India.

Cardamom mosaic virus (CdMV), a member of the genus Macluravirus of Potyviridae, 
causes a mosaic disease in cardamom. A polyclonal antiserum was raised against 
the purified virus and IgG was prepared. Electron microscopic studies on the 
purified virus showed flexuous filamentous particles of approximately 800 nm in 
length, typical of members of Potyviridae. The coat protein (CP) encoding 
sequence of the virus was expressed in Escherichia coli and the protein purified 
by affinity chromatography under denaturing conditions. The viral nature of the 
expressed CP was confirmed by positive reaction with anti CdMV IgG in a Western 
blot. The expressed CP aggregated irreversibly upon renaturation at 
concentrations above 0.07 mg/ml. The expression of the CP led to the formation 
of filamentous aggregates in E. coli as observed by immuno-gold electron 
microscopy. The filamentous aggregates were of 100-150 nm in length. 
Immuno-capture RT-PCR confirmed the absence of coat protein mRNA in the 
filamentous aggregates. Deletion mutations, which were expected to inhibit virus 
assembly, were introduced in the core region of the coat protein. However, these 
mutations did not improve the solubility of the CP in non-denaturing buffers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(02)00057-6
PMID: 12076837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2006 May;38(5):305-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1745-7270.2006.00167.x.

Production of the polyclonal anti-human metallothionein 2A antibody with 
recombinant protein technology.

Marikar FM(1), Sun QM, Hua ZC.

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Nanjing University, 
Nanjing 210093, China.

Metallothionein 2A (MT2A) is a small stress response protein that can be induced 
by exposure to toxic metals. It is highly expressed in breast cancer cells. In 
this study, the cDNA encoding the human MT2A protein was expressed as 
glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein in Escherichia coli. Recombinant 
MT2A proteins were loaded onto 12% sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel and 
separated by electrophoresis, the recombinant protein was visualized by 
Coomassie blue staining and the 33 kDa recombinant GST-MT2A fusion protein band 
was cut out from the gel. The gel slice was minced and used to generate 
polyclonal antisera. Immunization of rabbit against MT2A protein allowed the 
production of high titer polyclonal antiserum. This new polyclonal antibody 
recognized recombinant MT2A protein in western blot analysis. This low-cost 
antibody will be useful for detection in various immuno-assays.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7270.2006.00167.x
PMID: 16680370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Mol Biol. 2010 May 14;398(4):600-13. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.03.030. Epub 2010 
Mar 25.

Low-level expression of a folding-incompetent protein in Escherichia coli: 
search for the molecular determinants of protein aggregation in vivo.

Winkelmann J(1), Calloni G, Campioni S, Mannini B, Taddei N, Chiti F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Sciences, University of Florence, Viale Morgagni 
50, 50134 Firenze, Italy.

Aggregation of peptides and proteins into insoluble amyloid fibrils or related 
intracellular inclusions is the hallmark of many degenerative diseases, 
including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and various forms of 
amyloidosis. In spite of the considerable progress carried out in vitro in 
elucidating the molecular determinants of the conversion of purified and 
isolated proteins into amyloid fibrils, very little is known on factors 
governing this process in the complex environment of living organisms. Taking 
advantage of increasing evidence that bacterial inclusion bodies consist of 
amyloid-like aggregates, we have expressed in Escherichia coli both wild type 
and 21 single-point mutants of the N-terminal domain of the E. coli protein 
HypF. All variants were expressed as folding-incompetent units in a controlled 
manner, at low and comparable levels. Their solubilities were measured by 
quantifying the protein amount contained in the soluble and insoluble fractions 
by Western blot analysis. A significant negative correlation was found between 
the solubility of the variants in E. coli and their intrinsic propensity to form 
amyloid fibrils, predicted using an algorithm previously validated 
experimentally in vitro on a number of unfolded peptides and proteins, and 
considering hydrophobicity, beta-sheet propensity, and charge as major sequence 
determinants of the aggregation process. These findings show that the 
physicochemical parameters previously recognized to govern amyloid formation by 
fully or partially unfolded proteins are largely applicable in vivo and pave the 
way for the molecular exploration of a process as complex as protein aggregation 
in living organisms.

(c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.03.030
PMID: 20346957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Amino Acids. 2010 Aug;39(3):811-20. doi: 10.1007/s00726-010-0534-2. Epub 2010 
Mar 6.

A novel method for promoting heterologous protein expression in Escherichia coli 
by fusion with the HIV-1 TAT core domain.

Wu Y(1), Ren C, Gao Y, Hou B, Chen T, Zhang C.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, 
Taiping Road 27, 100850, Beijing, China.

The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) transactivator of transcription 
(TAT) protein, a member of the protein transduction domain (PTD) superfamily, 
can deliver heterologous proteins across most biomembranes without losing 
bioactivity. However, there is no report on whether the TAT core domain 
containing the sequence 'YGRKKRRQRRR' has other functions. As the TAT core 
domain is most basic (pI=12.8) and has biomembrane crossing ability, we 
hypothesized it might probably influence the protein expression level due to 
subcellular redistribution of target proteins in the cells. To address this 
issue, we constructed the prokaryotic expression vector pET28b-TAT-EGFP (using 
the vector pET28b-EGFP for control) containing the core domain coding region, 
and transformed the vector into E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells for expression of the 
enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) with the inducer 
isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). Equal amount of the total 
proteins were fractionated using 15% SDS-PAGE and identified by western blot, 
and the plasmid copy number was assayed by Southern blot. In order to further 
study the subcellular localization of heterologous proteins in E. coli cells, 
the cytoplasmic and periplasmic components were extracted by chloroform and 
osmotic shock techniques. Interestingly, our data showed that the TAT core 
domain was not only able to promote the heterologous protein expression in E. 
coli, but also improve the yields and the solubility of heterologous proteins, 
while the plasmid copy number of TAT-containing clones and TAT-free clones was 
not affected by the TAT core domain. In addition, the TAT-tagged protein was 
mainly localized in the cytoplasm and also accumulated in the periplasmic space 
along with the time for protein expression, while in contrast, the TAT-free 
protein was mainly expressed in the periplasm and only a few in cytoplasm. A 
further examination on the distribution of the expressed proteins in cytoplasm 
and periplasm suggested that the TAT core domain might promote protein 
expression in the cytoplasm initially and then partially deliver them across the 
cytomembrane to the periplasmic space in a concentration-dependent manner. Taken 
together, our current data have provided a novel method for improving 
heterologous protein expression in prokaryotic cells by fusion with the TAT core 
domain, which will promote expression efficiency of bioactive proteins for 
protein engineering.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-010-0534-2
PMID: 20213440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Oncol Rep. 2012 Jul;28(1):91-8. doi: 10.3892/or.2012.1756. Epub 2012 Apr 3.

Construction and characterization of a PDCD5 recombinant lentivirus vector and 
its expression in tumor cells.

Wang S(1), Zeng X, Liu Y, Liang C, Zhang H, Liu C, Du W, Zhang Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotherapy and Laboratory of Biotherapy, The Fourth Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang 110032, PR China. 
sywang66@yahoo.com

The function and mechanism of the programmed cell death 5 (PDCD5) gene is not 
completely understood, so it is necessary to build a stable and efficient PDCD5 
recombinant lentiviral expression vector. The coding region of the PDCD5 gene 
was PCR amplified from pCMV-SPORT6. Next, the PDCD5 fragment and the pGC-FU 
vector were digested with the restriction enzyme AgeI and ligated by in-Fusion 
technology to build the pGC-FU-PDCD5 plasmid. Competent E. coli DH5α cells were 
transformed and positive clones were identified by PCR. The PCR products were 
digested and sequenced. After sequencing, positive clones were selected to grow 
and propagate. The pGC-FU-PDCD5 plasmid DNA was purified and mixed with the 
pHelper1.0 and pHelper2.0 packaging plasmids. They were co-transfected into 293T 
cells. The viral titer was measured by real-time PCR. The expression of GFP and 
PDCD5 was detected by both Western blotting and fluorescence microscopy. 
Additionally, the A498, ACHN, HCT116 and LoVo tumor cell lines were transfected 
with the virus supernatant, and PDCD5 expression was detected in these cells. 
The constructed pGC-FU-PDCD5 plasmid contained the correct PDCD5 gene sequence. 
Strong green fluorescence in both the cytoplasm and cell membrane was observed 
following transfection with purified pGC-FU-PDCD5 into 293T cells. The 
transfection rate was greater than 95%, and the expression of the PDCD5-GFP 
fusion protein was confirmed by Western blotting. The titer of the recombinant 
PDCD5 lentiviral condensed supernatant was measured to be 2 x 10(9) Tu/ml. The 
transfection efficiencies of A498, ACHN and HCT116 cells were greater than 90%. 
However, transfection efficiency of LoVo cells was lower but still greater than 
70%. The PDCD5-GFP fusion protein was stable in these transfected tumor cells, 
as detected by Western blotting. In conclusion, a PDCD5 recombinant lentiviral 
vector was successfully constructed, and high expression of the plasmid was 
observed in tumor cells.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2012.1756
PMID: 22484667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Biol Chem. 2001 Jun 15;276(24):21343-50. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M011142200. Epub 
2001 Apr 6.

Functional expression, characterization, and purification of the catalytic 
domain of human 11-beta -hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1.

Walker EA(1), Clark AM, Hewison M, Ride JP, Stewart PM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences and the School of Biosciences, University of 
Birmingham, P. O. Box 363, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT.

11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 catalyzes the conversion of 
cortisone to hormonally active cortisol and has been implicated in the 
pathogenesis of a number of disorders including insulin resistance and obesity. 
The enzyme is a glycosylated membrane-bound protein that has proved difficult to 
purify in an active state. Extracted enzyme typically loses the reductase 
properties seen in intact cells and shows principally dehydrogenase activity. 
The C-terminal catalytic domain is known to contain a disulfide bond and is 
located within the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, anchored to the membrane 
by a single N-terminal transmembrane domain. We report here the functional 
expression of the catalytic domain of the human enzyme, without the 
transmembrane domain and the extreme N terminus, in Escherichia coli. Moderate 
levels of soluble active protein were obtained using an N-terminal fusion with 
thioredoxin and a 6xHis tag. In contrast, the inclusion of a 6xHis tag at the C 
terminus adversely affected protein solubility and activity. However, the 
highest levels of active protein were obtained using a construct expressing the 
untagged catalytic domain. Nonreducing electrophoresis revealed the presence of 
both monomeric and dimeric disulfide bonded forms; however, mutation of a 
nonconserved cysteine residue resulted in a recombinant protein with no 
intermolecular disulfide bonds but full enzymatic activity. Using the optimal 
combination of plasmid construct and E. coli host strain, the recombinant 
protein was purified to apparent homogeneity by single step affinity 
chromatography. The purified protein possessed both dehydrogenase and reductase 
activities with a K(m) of 1.4 micrometer for cortisol and 9.5 micrometer for 
cortisone. This study indicates that glycosylation, the N-terminal region 
including the transmembrane helix, and intermolecular disulfide bonds are not 
essential for enzyme activity and that expression in bacteria can provide active 
recombinant protein for future structural and functional studies.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M011142200
PMID: 11294832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Biotechnol Prog. 2008 Mar-Apr;24(2):417-25. doi: 10.1021/bp070304q. Epub 2008 
Jan 24.

Polyethyleneimine-mediated chemical extraction of cytoplasmic His-tagged 
inclusion body proteins from Escherichia coli.

Nian R(1), Tan L, Choe WS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering, National University of 
Singapore, 10 Kent Ridge Crescent, Singapore.

The selectivity of polyethyleneimine (PEI) in DNA precipitation during chemical 
extraction was investigated. Chemical extraction was used to recover two 
His-tagged model proteins: gloshedobin, a thrombin-like enzyme from snake venom, 
and IbpA, a molecular chaperone, which were expressed mainly in the form of 
inclusion bodies. High DNA removal efficiency (more than 90%) was achieved at 
various cell densities (with OD600 ranging from 30 to 150) without affecting the 
solubility of host cell proteins. Compared to spermine-induced precipitation 
method reported elsewhere, PEI provided a higher DNA precipitation efficiency at 
a significantly lower cost. Moreover, PEI obviated the use of EDTA, which has 
been reported to be essential for the chemical extraction methods, hence 
exhibiting dual roles in replacing cost-prohibitive spermine and EDTA. The 
residual PEI in the post-extraction mixture was efficiently counteracted by 
addition of Mg2+, allowing the streamlined application of the extraction broth 
to immobilized metal affinity chromatography. Taken together, the PEI-mediated 
chemical extraction method provides a simpler and more economically viable 
processing route for the production of recombinant proteins whose expression is 
hampered by IB formation.

DOI: 10.1021/bp070304q
PMID: 18215056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Apr;70(2):260-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.09.012. Epub 
2009 Sep 24.

Ligand-enhanced expression and in-cell assay of human peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor alpha ligand binding domain.

Velkov T(1), Rimmer KA, Headey SJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Deakin University, Pigdons Road, Geelong, 3217 Victoria, 
Australia. Velkov@deakin.edu.au

A human peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ligand binding domain 
(PPAR alpha LBD)-maltose binding protein fusion construct was expressed in 
Escherichia coli. A codon optimized DNA sequence encoding human PPAR alpha LBD 
(aa196-468) was synthesized and ligated into the pDEST17 E. coli expression 
vector downstream of a MBP solubility fusion tag and an intermittent TEV 
protease cleavage site. Following auto-induction at 28 degrees C, PPAR alpha LBD 
protein was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by a nickel affinity 
chromatographic step, on-column TEV protease cleavage followed by Sephacryl S200 
size exclusion chromatography. The recombinant protein displayed 
cross-reactivity with goat anti-(human PPAR alpha) polyclonal antibody and was 
identified as human PPAR alpha by trypic peptide mass finger-printing. The 
addition of a PPAR alpha specific ligand (fenofibric acid, GW7647 or GW590735) 
to the growth media significantly stabilized the PPAR alpha LBD structure and 
enhanced the expression of soluble protein. In-cell ligand binding was examined 
by monitoring the enhancement of PPAR alpha LBD expression as a function of the 
concentration of ligand in the growth media. The efficient expression and 
in-cell assay of the reported PPAR alpha LBD construct make it amenable to high 
through-put screening assays in drug discovery programs.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.09.012
PMID: 19782138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Bacteriol. 2011 Jan;193(2):563-74. doi: 10.1128/JB.01062-10. Epub 2010 Nov 19.

Fur and the novel regulator YqjI control transcription of the ferric reductase 
gene yqjH in Escherichia coli.

Wang S(1), Wu Y, Outten FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, SC 29208, USA.

Iron acquisition in aerobic habitats is complicated by the low solubility of 
ferric hydroxides. Siderophores that bind ferric iron with high affinity are 
used to mobilize iron. The reduction of ferric iron to the ferrous form can be 
coupled to the release of iron from siderophores. Iron is also stored 
intracellularly as a ferric mineral in proteins, such as ferritin, and must be 
reduced during release. In Escherichia coli, the yqjH gene encodes a putative 
ferric siderophore reductase that is also part of the Fur regulon. Here we show 
that YqjH has ferric reductase activity and is required for iron homeostasis in 
E. coli. Divergently transcribed from yqjH is the yqjI gene, which encodes a 
novel member of the winged-helix family of transcriptional regulators and also 
contains an N-terminal extension similar to the Ni(2+)-binding C-terminal tail 
of SlyD. Deletion of yqjI leads to constitutive high-level activity of the yqjH 
and yqjI promoters. Purified YqjI binds inverted repeat target sequences within 
the yqjH and yqjI promoters. We also observed that YqjI-dependent 
transcriptional repression is reduced when cells are exposed to elevated nickel 
levels, resulting in increased expression of yqjH and yqjI. YqjI binding to 
nickel or iron reduces YqjI DNA-binding activity in vitro. Furthermore, we found 
that elevated nickel stress levels disrupt iron homeostasis in E. coli and that 
deletion of yqjH increases nickel toxicity. Our results suggest that the YqjI 
protein controls expression of yqjH to help maintain iron homeostasis under 
conditions (such as elevated cellular nickel levels) that disrupt iron 
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01062-10
PMCID: PMC3019823
PMID: 21097627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. BMC Biochem. 2014 Apr 2;15:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2091-15-8.

Expression, purification and characterization of soluble red rooster laforin as 
a fusion protein in Escherichia coli.

Brewer MK, Husodo S, Dukhande VV, Johnson MB, Gentry MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry and Center for Structural 
Biology, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, 741 S, Limestone, 
Lexington, Kentucky 40536-0509, USA. matthew.gentry@uky.edu.

BACKGROUND: The gene that encodes laforin, a dual-specificity phosphatase with a 
carbohydrate-binding module, is mutated in Lafora disease (LD). LD is an 
autosomal recessive, fatal progressive myoclonus epilepsy characterized by the 
intracellular buildup of insoluble, hyperphosphorylated glycogen-like particles, 
called Lafora bodies. Laforin dephosphorylates glycogen and other glucans in 
vitro, but the structural basis of its activity remains unknown. Recombinant 
human laforin when expressed in and purified from E. coli is largely insoluble 
and prone to aggregation and precipitation. Identification of a laforin ortholog 
that is more soluble and stable in vitro would circumvent this issue.
RESULTS: In this study, we cloned multiple laforin orthologs, established a 
purification scheme for each, and tested their solubility and stability. Gallus 
gallus (Gg) laforin is more stable in vitro than human laforin, Gg-laforin is 
largely monomeric, and it possesses carbohydrate binding and phosphatase 
activity similar to human laforin.
CONCLUSIONS: Gg-laforin is more soluble and stable than human laforin in vitro, 
and possesses similar activity as a glucan phosphatase. Therefore, it can be 
used to model human laforin in structure-function studies. We have established a 
protocol for purifying recombinant Gg-laforin in sufficient quantity for 
crystallographic and other biophysical analyses, in order to better understand 
the function of laforin and define the molecular mechanisms of Lafora disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2091-15-8
PMCID: PMC4234410
PMID: 24690255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Anal Biochem. 2006 Nov 1;358(1):38-50. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2006.08.011. Epub 2006 
Aug 23.

Formation of fluorescent proteins by the attachment of phycoerythrobilin to 
R-phycoerythrin alpha and beta apo-subunits.

Isailovic D(1), Sultana I, Phillips GJ, Yeung ES.

Author information:
(1)Ames Laboratory-U.S. Department of Energy and Department of Chemistry, Iowa 
State University, Ames, IA 50011, USA.

Formation of fluorescent proteins was explored after incubation of recombinant 
apo-subunits of phycobiliprotein R-phycoerythrin with phycoerythrobilin 
chromophore. Alpha and beta apo-subunit genes of R-phycoerythrin from red algae 
Polisiphonia boldii were cloned in plasmid pET-21d(+). Hexahistidine-tagged 
alpha and beta apo-subunits were expressed in Escherichia coli. Although 
expressed apo-subunits formed inclusion bodies, fluorescent holo-subunits were 
constituted after incubation of E. coli cells with phycoerythrobilin. 
Holo-subunits contained both phycoerythrobilin and urobilin chromophores. 
Fluorescence and differential interference contrast microscopy showed polar 
location of holo-subunit inclusion bodies in bacterial cells. Cells containing 
fluorescent holo-subunits were several times brighter than control cells as 
found by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. The addition of 
phycoerythrobilin to cells did not show cytotoxic effects, in contrast to 
expression of proteins in inclusion bodies. In an attempt to improve solubility, 
R-phycoerythrin apo-subunits were fused to maltose-binding protein and incubated 
with phycoerythrobilin both in vitro and in vivo. Highly fluorescent soluble 
fusion proteins containing phycoerythrobilin as the sole chromophore were 
formed. Fusion proteins were localized by fluorescence microscopy either 
throughout E. coli cells or at cell poles. Flow cytometry showed that cells 
containing fluorescent fusion proteins were up to 10 times brighter than control 
cells. Results indicate that fluorescent proteins formed by attachment of 
phycoerythrobilin to expressed apo-subunits of phycobiliproteins can be used as 
fluorescent probes for analysis of cells by microscopy and flow cytometry. A 
unique property of these fluorescent reporters is their utility in both properly 
folded (soluble) subunits and subunits aggregated in inclusion bodies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2006.08.011
PMCID: PMC1633713
PMID: 16979575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Oct 21;68(42):11765-11773. doi: 
10.1021/acs.jafc.0c05253. Epub 2020 Oct 8.

Biosensor-Guided Atmospheric and Room-Temperature Plasma Mutagenesis and 
Shuffling for High-Level Production of Shikimic Acid from Sucrose in Escherichia 
coli.

Niu FX(1), He X(1), Huang YB(1), Liu JZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Synthetic Biology, MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic and 
Synthetic Chemistry, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 
510275, China.

Here, we first developed a combined strain improvement strategy of 
biosensor-guided atmospheric and room-temperature plasma mutagenesis and genome 
shuffling. Application of this strategy resulted in a 2.7-fold increase in the 
production of shikimic acid (SA) and a 2.0-fold increase in growth relative to 
those of the starting strain. Whole-cell resequencing of the shuffled strain and 
confirmation using CRISPRa/CRISPRi revealed that some membrane protein-related 
mutant genes are identified as being closely related to the higher SA titer. The 
engineered shuffling strain produced 18.58 ± 0.56 g/L SA from glucose with a 
yield of 68% (mol/mol) by fed-batch whole-cell biocatalysis, achieving 79% of 
the theoretical maximum. Sucrose-utilizing Escherichia coli was engineered for 
SA production by introducing Mannheimia succiniciproducens β-fructofuranosidase 
gene. The resulting sucrose-utilizing E. coli strain produced 24.64 ± 0.32 g/L 
SA from sucrose with a yield of 1.42 mol/mol by fed-batch whole-cell 
biocatalysis, achieving 83% of the theoretical maximum.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c05253
PMID: 33030899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue. 2017 Jan;23(1):3-10.

[Preparation of a polyclonal antibody against human LYZL4 and its expression in 
the testis].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Huang P(1), Yang ZF(1), Xu YX(2), Bao JY(1), Zhang N(1), Cao XE(1), Li WS(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Shanghai University of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Shanghai 201318, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai University of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Shanghai 200237, China.
(3)School of Arts and Sciences, Shanghai New York University, Shanghai 200122.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare a polyclonal antibody against human lysozyme-like protein 
4 (LYZL4) expressed in the prokaryotic system and identify the distribution of 
LYZL4 in the testis.
METHODS: The full-length cDNA of LYZL4 was cloned into the pET32a plasmid and 
the expression of the recombinant LYZL4 (rLYZL4) was induced by IPTG. The rLYZL4 
was purified by Ni-NTA and chitin affinity chromatography respectively and its 
bactericidal activity was observed by bilayer agar plate diffusion assay. The 
purified rLYZL4 was used as an immunogen to generate the polyclonal antibody, 
followed by examination of the antibody titer by ELISA and its specificity by 
Western blot. The distribution of LYZL4 in human tissue, sperm and seminal 
plasma was identified and its subcellular localization in the testis was 
determined by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: rLYZL4 was expressed efficiently in the prokaryotic system and 
exhibited no bacteriolytic activity against M. lysodeikticus and E. coli. The 
anti-rLYZL4 polyclonal antibody could bind the recombinant protein with a high 
sensitivity and specificity. LYZL4 was identified in the testis, epididymis and 
sperm protein extracts and localized in the acrosomal region of round and 
elongating spermatids.
CONCLUSIONS: An anti-rLYZL4 polyclonal antibody was successfully prepared using 
the prokaryotic expression system. LYZL4 was detected in the acrosomal region of 
round and elongating spermatids, suggesting an association with the structure 
and function of the acrosome.

Publisher: 目的： 以原核表达的人源类溶菌酶蛋白4（LYZL4）为免疫原制备多克隆抗体，检测LYZL4在睾丸组织中的定位，为阐明其生理功能提供依据。 
方法： 将 
LYZL4编码基因克隆于原核表达载体pET32a，IPTG诱导重组LYZL4（rLYZL4）表达。分别使用Ni-NTA树脂和甲壳素亲和层析纯化rLYZL4，采用双层琼脂平板扩散法检测 
杀菌活性。以Ni-NTA树脂纯化产物为免疫原制备兔抗rLYZL4多克隆抗体，通过ELISA测定抗体效价，Western印迹检测抗体特异性后，检测LYZL4蛋白在人体各组织的分 
布及其在精子和精浆中存在情况，免疫组化确认LYZL4在人睾丸组织中的定位。 结果： 原核表达系统可有效表达rLYZL4，其对溶壁微球菌及大肠杆菌无杀灭活性。制 
备的兔抗rLYZL4多克隆抗体具有很高的效价和特异性，在睾丸、附睾及人精子蛋白提取物中可检测到LYZL4存在，在生精小管中，LYZL4定位于圆形精子细胞及长形精 
子细胞的顶体上。 结论： 本研究成功以原核表达的rLYZL4制备了该蛋白的多克隆抗体，确认LYZL4在睾丸和附睾有表达，并定位于精子顶体上，提示其可能与顶体结 
构或功能相关。.

PMID: 29658230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2014 Aug 15;7(9):5674-82. eCollection 2014.

Cloning and characterization of Clp protease proteolytic subunit 2 and its 
implication in clinical diagnosis of tuberculosis.

Li D(1), Zhang C(2), Lu N(3), Mu L(2), He Y(2), Xu L(2), Yang J(2), Fan Y(2), 
Kang Y(2), Yang C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Disease, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University Chongqing 400016, China ; Department of Pathology, Chongqing 
Medical University Chongqing 400016, China.
(2)Department of Pathogenic Organisms, Chongqing Medical University Chongqing 
400016, China ; Molecular Medicine and Cancer Research Center, Chongqing Medical 
University Chongqing 400016, China.
(3)Molecular Medicine and Cancer Research Center, Chongqing Medical University 
Chongqing 400016, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone, express, and characterize Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) 
ClpP2, and evaluated the potential usage of ClpP2 in clinical diagnosis of 
tuberculosis.
METHODS: Mtb ClpP2 was cloned into recombinant plasmid pET32a (+) and 
transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3). SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis were 
performed to detect the expression of the recombinant protein. The 
immunogenicity of Mtb ClpP2 was assessed with epitope prediction and antibody 
titer assay. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to detect the influence of 
stress conditions on ClpP2 expression. ClpP2 antigen and antibody in patients 
with pulmonary diseases were detected by indirect ELISA. ROC curve was 
constructed to assess the diagnostic accuracy of Mtb ClpP2 for tuberculosis.
RESULTS: We had cloned and expressed recombinant Mtb ClpP2 in E. coli. Our 
results showed that Mtb ClpP2 had potent immunogenicity, and our own prepared 
polyclonal antibody could be used in detection and diagnostic tests. Results 
from Western blot showed that ClpP2 was mainly located in M. bovis BCG 
cytoplasm, and real-time PCR indicated that stress conditions could enhance the 
mRNA expression of ClpP2. Indirect ELISA suggested that, in tuberculosis 
patients, both the levels of ClpP2 antigen and antibody were increased, and the 
positive rates of ClpP2 were elevated. ROC curve had demonstrated satisfactory 
sensitivity and specificity of ClpP2-based diagnosis for tuberculosis.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that Mtb ClpP2 antigens would be used as a 
biomarker in tuberculosis pathogenesis. These findings highlight the feasibility 
of the application of Mtb ClpP2 in the clinical diagnosis of tuberculosis.

PMCID: PMC4203179
PMID: 25337208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Bull Entomol Res. 2017 Oct;107(5):620-626. doi: 10.1017/S000748531700013X. Epub 
2017 Feb 23.

Characterization and functional analysis of serpin-1 like gene from oak silkworm 
Antheraea pernyi.

Yu HM(1), Zhu BJ(1), Sun Y(1), Wei GQ(1), Wang L(1), Qian C(1), Nadeem Abbas 
M(1), Liu CL(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences,Anhui Agricultural University,Hefei,230036,China.

Serpins are a broadly distributed family of proteases found in various organisms 
that play an important role in regulating the immune response. Here, we 
identified a serpin-1 gene from Antheraea pernyi that encodes a 279 amino acid 
protein with a molecular weight of 30.8 kDa. We expressed the recombinant 
Ap-serpin-1 protein in Escherichia coli and used the purified protein to prepare 
rabbit anti-Ap-serpin-1 polyclonal antibodies. We calculated the enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay titer of the antibody as 1:128000. Quantitative real-time 
polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that Ap-serpin-1 was expressed in 
all examined tissues, including hemolymph, malpighian tubules, midgut, silk 
gland, integument and the fat body; the highest Ap-serpin-1 expression levels 
was detected in the fat body. We next investigated the expression patterns of 
Ap-serpin-1 in both fat body and hemolymph samples, following treatment with E. 
coli, Beauveria bassiana, Micrococcus luteus and nuclear polyhedrosis virus 
(NPV). We reported that NPV and M. luteus significantly enhanced Ap-serpin-1 
expression in the fat body. While, in the hemolymph samples, treatment with B. 
bassiana and M. luteus was shown to upregulate Ap-serpin-1 expression at 24 h 
induction. Altogether, our results suggest that Ap-serpin-1 is involved in the 
innate immunity of A. pernyi.

DOI: 10.1017/S000748531700013X
PMID: 28228181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Curr Protoc Protein Sci. 2001 May;Chapter 5:Unit5.2. doi: 
10.1002/0471140864.ps0502s00.

Selection of Escherichia coli expression systems.

Bernard A(1), Payton M.

Author information:
(1)Glaxo Institute for Molecular Biology, Geneva, Switzerland.

This unit lists the most useful expression strains of E. coli for fermentation 
processes. Standard procedures are provided for several expression systems, 
namely, temperature induction via the p(L) promoter and chemical induction via 
the trp promoter, lac or tac promoters, and the T7 promoter. These protocols 
require that the gene encoding the protein of interest has been identified and 
cloned into an appropriate expression vector using standard molecular biology 
techniques. Transformation of a suitable host strain (e.g., by electroporation) 
is also described and is a prerequisite. Protocols for the analysis of plasmid 
stability and subsequent storage are provided. Support protocols describe how to 
prepare samples for electrophoresis, how to analyze the solubility of the 
expressed proteins, and how to make samples of periplasmic extracts and 
extracellular media (using TCA precipitation). Many of the support protocols are 
small-scale analysis procedures that are used to guide subsequent purification 
strategies and determine the suitability of the expression system for further 
development and scale-up.

DOI: 10.1002/0471140864.ps0502s00
PMID: 18429183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2009 Jul;19(7):709-12.

Production of flavonoid o-glucoside using sucrose synthase and flavonoid 
o-glucosyltransferase fusion protein.

Son MH(1), Kim BG, Kim DH, Jin M, Kim K, Ahn JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Bio/Molecular Informatics Center, 
Konkuk University, Seoul, Korea.

Enzymatic glucosylation with glycosyltransferases can be used to regulate the 
water solubility of aglycone. The drawback of this process is the demand of 
UDP-glucose as a sugar donor. We made an in-frame fusion of the flavonoid 
O-glucosyltransferase (OsUGT-3) and sucrose synthase (AtSUS) genes. The 
resulting fusion protein, OsUGT3-AtSUS, was expressed in E. coli and purified. 
When sucrose and UDP were supplied, SUS-UGT was able to convert quercetin into 
quercetin O-glucoside without the addition of UDP-glucose. In addition, 
UDPglucose was recycled when sucrose was added to the reaction mixture. This 
fusion protein is useful for the enzymatic production of flavonoid O-glucosides.

PMID: 19652519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 Nov;24(11):1981-7.

[Cloning, prokaryotic expression of rat RVLG and preparation of mouse anti-RVLG 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang P(1), Xing W, Bao X, Liu Z, Wang L, Li S, Wu R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Life Sciences, Inner Mongolia University, 
Hohhot 010021, China.

In order to identify rat ovarian germ cells, we expressed and purified rat RVLG 
protein in Escherichia coli cells and prepared a mouse anti-rat RVLG polyclonal 
antibody. The rat RVLG cDNA was obtained from rat testicle tissue by RT-PCR and 
was cloned into the vector pMD19-T. Sequence analysis proves that the cloned 
RVLG cDNA fragment was 60 bp longer than that released in the GenBank 
(NM_001077647), resulting from an alternative splicing of the RVLG pre-mRNA. The 
RVLG cDNA was double digested with the restriction endonucleases BamH I and EcoR 
I, and then was extracted from gel and inserted into the prokaryotic expression 
vector pGEX-4T-1. The recombinant expression plasmid pGEX-RVLG was verified for 
successful construction and then was transformed into Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) 
for induction to express the GST-RVLG fusion protein by IPTG. The GST-RVLG 
fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) at a high level 
which accounts for more than 10% of the total bacterial cellular protein. The 
purified RVLG protein was used as an antigen to immunize KM mouse for the 
production of polyclonal antibody in ascetic fluid followed by celiacly 
injecting the mouse with S180 cells. The mouse anti-rat RVLG antibody was 
analyzed by ELISA, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry for its specificity 
and titer. The antibody could recognize RVLG protein specifically and its titer 
was about 1:20 000. These results confirm that the mouse anti-rat RVLG 
polyclonal antibody with high affinity and specificity has been prepared 
successfully, and lay a foundation for our ongoing research on the specific 
expression of RVLG in rat ovary.

PMID: 19256349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Oct;150:86-91. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.05.006. Epub 
2018 May 26.

Production of soluble bioactive mouse leukemia inhibitory factor from 
Escherichia coli using MBP tag.

Guo Y(1), Yu M(2), Jing N(2), Zhang S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, No.100 Science Avenue, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, China. Electronic address: guoyn@zzu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, No.100 Science Avenue, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, 450001, China.

Embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells depend on one of 
cytokines called leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) to retain their 
undifferentiated state and pluripotency. Nevertheless, further progresses of 
stem cell scientific investigation and its possible application are limited 
owing to the expense of commercial LIF. Here we introduced a simple, practical 
and high level expression of MBP-mouse LIF through Escherichia coli system which 
was bioactive. The mLIF cDNA was inserted into vector of pMAL-C2X in order to 
generate N-terminal MBP-mLIF recombinant proteins in the cytoplasm of 
Escherichia coli. MBP-mLIF as a soluble form was expressed. One-step 
purification through gravitational affinity chromatography was accomplished to 
acquire high purity (>92%) MBP-mLIF. The MBP-mLIF products specifically 
suppressed the growth of M1cells in a dose-dependent pattern. MBP-mLIF also was 
proved the ability to maintain the pluripotency of iPSCs. These outcomes 
revealed that the N-end MBP tags of the MBP-mLIF did not obstruct mLIF 
bioactivity. This method to generate recombinant MBP-mLIF is a simple, 
practical, economical and user-friendly protocol.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.05.006
PMID: 29758321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Protein Pept Lett. 2019;26(12):904-909. doi: 10.2174/0929866526666190820161328.

Self-assembling Rotavirus VP6 Nanoparticle Vaccines Expressed in Escherichia 
coli Elicit Systemic and Mucosal Responses in Mice.

Li Z(1), Cui K(1), Huang K(1), Liu F(1), Shi D(1), Liu Q(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-Bioresources, Guangxi University, Nanning, Guangxi, 530005, China.
(2)Agricultural Genomics Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518120, China.

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus is the most common cause of infectious diarrhea in infants 
and young children around the world. The inner capsid protein VP6 has been 
discussed as alternative vaccine as it can induce cross-protective immune 
responses against different RV strai. The use of ferritin nanoparticle may 
enhance the immunogenicity of the subunit vaccine.
OBJECTIVE: In this article, our motivation is to design and obtain a 
self-assemble rotavirus nanoparticle vaccine which can induce efficiency immune 
response.
METHODS: The VP6 protein was fused with ferritin and expressed in the 
Escherichia coli expression system. The recombinant VP6-ferritin (rVP6-ferritin) 
protein was purified by His-tag affinity chromatography and fast protein liquid 
chromatography. Transmission electron micrographic analysis was used to detect 
the nanostructure of the self-assembled protein. Mice were gavage with the 
protein and ELISA was used to detect the titer of the VP6 specific antibody.
RESULTS: The recombined VP6-ferritin was expressed in the Escherichia coli as an 
inclusion body form and the purified protein has similar antigenicity to 
rotavirus VP6. Transmission electron micrographic analysis of rVP6-ferritin 
exhibited spherical architecture with a uniform size distribution, which is 
similar to the ferritin nanocage. Immune response analysis showed that mice 
immunized by rVP6-ferritin protein induced 8000 (8000±1093) anti-VP6 IgG titers 
or 1152 (1152±248.8) anti-VP6 IgA titers.
CONCLUSION: According to the above research, the rotavirus VP6-ferritin protein 
can be easily express and self-assemble to the nano-vaccine and induce 
efficiency humoral and mucosal immunity. Our research makes a foundation for the 
development of oral rotavirus vaccine.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0929866526666190820161328
PMID: 31429685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2017 Oct;105(10):2799-2805. doi: 10.1002/jbm.a.36143. Epub 
2017 Jul 7.

Protein engineering of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 2 with 
higher interaction with Ca phosphate based scaffold used for osteogenesis.

Bayat M(1), Shojaei S(2), Bahrami N(1)(3), Mohamadnia A(4)(5), Shojaei P(6), 
Bahrami N(7).

Author information:
(1)Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Department, School of Dentistry, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Craniomaxillofacial Research Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Gandhi Hospital, Cell Therapy Center, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Iranian Tissue Bank and Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Virology Research Center, National Research Institute of Tuberculosis and 
Lung Diseases (NRITLD), Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, 
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Chemistry, Shahid Chamran University, Ahvaz, Iran.
(7)Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego.

The aim of the present study was to assess the recombinant bonemorphogenetic 
protein 2 (RHBMP-2) with higher substantively and solubility for use in calcium 
phosphate scaffolds for better release in differentiation of mesenchymal stem 
cells to osteoblast cells. Using bioinformatics tools, two mutations (p. L10D 
and p. S12E) were chosen and applied in BMP2 CDS sequence to increase 
interaction with calcium derived composite. The new recombinant mutated sequence 
(BMP2mut ) was synthesized and then subcloned to expression vector pBV220. 
Experimental data regarded functional protein expression in E. coli. Since no 
modification was made in the active sites of proteins namely β-sheets and 
α-helixes, not only was there any change in the specific activity occurred in 
the specific activity of the enzyme in comparison to its commercial counterpart, 
but also mesenchymal osteogenesis occurred more efficient on biphasic CaP 
scaffold model. As we hypothesized, use of negatively charged amino acids such 
as aspartate and glutamate in protein loops increased the interactions of 
BMP2-Ca2+ and resulted in its slower and more sustained released from CaP 
scaffolds compare to commercial RHBMP2. Our data suggested that new BMP2mut have 
greater osteoinductive capacity than RHBMP2 in the same time and dose than 
RHBMP2. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A: 105A: 
2799-2805, 2017.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.a.36143
PMID: 28643418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2015 Feb 4;55(2):149-55.

[Homologous cloning and expression of PDS gene from Dunaliella salina in 
Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou F, Huang F, Bai L.

OBJECTIVE: Phytoene desaturase PDS is a eukaryotic nuclear membrane binding 
protein, we used different expression methods to search for the soluble 
expression strategy of membrane binding protein in Escherichia coli.
METHODS: We cloned the full-length cDNA sequence of PDS from Dunaliella salina 
through RACE. First, we utilized prokaryotic expression vector pET-28a to 
construct pET-28a-PDS vector. Then, we substituted PLtac promoter for T7 
promoter in pET-28a to construct pET-PLtac-PDS vector. Last, we constructed 
pET-Mistic-PDS fusion vector by integrating Mistic sequence into pET-28a. All 
were transformed into BL21(DE3) for protein expression.
RESULTS: The 2237-bp full-length cDNA sequence of PDS was cloned, including a 
1749-bp open reading frame, encoding 582 amino acids (NCBI accession: 
GQ923693.1). The expression of PDS protein was low via pET-28a-PDS and 
pET-PLtac-PDS vector, and proteins were mostly expressed in inclusion body. The 
expression of PDS protein was significantly increased via pET-Mistic-PDS vector, 
in addition most were expressed as soluble protein which possessed dehydrogenase 
activity.
CONCLUSION: Mistic as the solubilization label was able to promote proper 
folding of membrane proteins and improve solubility. Protease activity assay 
proved that Mistic could maintain the enzyme activity.

PMID: 25958694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. BMC Biotechnol. 2011 Nov 30;11:117. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-11-117.

Expression of recombinant multi-coloured fluorescent antibodies in gor -/trxB- 
E. coli cytoplasm.

Markiv A(1), Beatson R, Burchell J, Durvasula RV, Kang AS.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Westminster, 115 New Cavendish St, 
London, W1W 6UW, UK.

BACKGROUND: Antibody-fluorophore conjugates are invaluable reagents used in 
contemporary molecular cell biology for imaging, cell sorting and tracking 
intracellular events. However they suffer in some cases from batch to batch 
variation, partial loss of binding and susceptibility to photo-bleaching. In 
theory, these issues can all be addressed by using recombinant antibody fused 
directly to genetically encoded fluorescent reporters. However, single-chain 
fragment variable domains linked by long flexible linkers are themselves prone 
to disassociation and aggregation, and in some cases with isoelectric points 
incompatible with use in physiologically relevant milieu. Here we describe a 
general approach that permits fully functional intracellular production of a 
range of coloured fluorescent recombinant antibodies with optimally orientated 
VH/VL interfaces and isoelectric points compatible for use in physiological 
solutions at pH 7.4 with a binding site to fluorophore stoichiometry of 1:1.
RESULTS: Here we report the design, assembly, intracellular bacterial production 
and purification of a panel of novel antibody fluorescent protein fusion 
constructs. The insertion of monomeric fluorescent protein derived from either 
Discosoma or Aequorea in-between the variable regions of anti-p185HER2-ECD 
antibody 4D5-8 resulted in optimal VH/VL interface interactions to create 
soluble coloured antibodies each with a single binding site, with isoelectric 
points of 6.5- 6. The fluorescent antibodies used in cell staining studies with 
SK-BR-3 cells retained the fluorophore properties and antibody specificity 
functions, whereas the conventional 4D5-8 single chain antibody with a 
(Gly4Ser)3 linker precipitated at physiological pH 7.4.
CONCLUSIONS: This modular monomeric recombinant fluorescent antibody platform 
may be used to create a range of recombinant coloured antibody molecules for 
quantitative in situ, in vivo and ex vivo imaging, cell sorting and cell 
trafficking studies. Assembling the single chain antibody with monomeric 
fluorescent protein linker facilitates optimal variable domain pairing and 
alters the isoelectric point of the recombinant 4D5-8 protein conferring 
solubility at physiological pH 7.4. The efficient intracellular expression of 
these functional molecules opens up the possibility of developing an alternative 
approach for tagging intracellular targets with fluorescent proteins for a range 
of molecular cell biology imaging studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-11-117
PMCID: PMC3280946
PMID: 22129156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2003 Jan;19(1):63-8.

[Fusion expression, purification and bioactivity assay of CpTI in Escherichia 
coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang LC(1), Chang TJ, Chen WX, Yang XG, Zhu Z.

Author information:
(1)Plant Genetic Manipulation Laboratory, Institute of Genetics, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

CpTI (Cowpea Trypsin Inhibitor) is a widely used insect resistance gene in the 
plant genetic engineering for its high insecticidal activity and the minimal 
ability of the insects to evolve resistance to it. To facilitate the safety 
assessment of genetically modified foods (GMFs) with CpTI protein, we need to 
produce gram quantities of this protein in microbes. With the pGEX fusion 
expression system, we expressed the GST-CpTI protein in E. coli BL21, which 
accounted for approximately 40% of germ proteins. By Glutathione Sephrose 4B 
affinity chromatography, GST-CpTI was obtained with the purity up to 90%. 
Overnight incubate the fusion proteins with Thrombin protease, we got the CpTI 
proteins cleavage of GST tag. Both of the GST-CpTI and CpTI proteins showed 
notable trypsin inhibitor activity. Immunization of rabbits with purified fusion 
protein generated high titer antibodies (> 20000), measuring by ELISA. Western 
Blotting also showed specific Ag-Ab binding band between the antiserum and the 
CpTI proteins no matter in the whole supersonic germ proteins or purified from 
the column. All these made a good ground for the further safety assessment of 
CpTI protein.

PMID: 15969038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2006 Jan;27(1):91-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1745-7254.2006.00253.x.

Display of aggregation-prone ligand binding domain of human PPAR gamma on 
surface of bacteriophage lambda.

Kong B(1), Ma WJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Sciences, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Medical School of Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, China.

AIM: To display the aggregation-prone ligand binding domain (LBD) of the human 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) on the surface of 
bacteriophages to establish an easy screening assay for the identification of 
PPARgamma ligands.
METHODS: Plasmids were constructed for the expression of the PPARgamma LBD as a 
fusion to the N-terminus of the g3p protein of filamentous phage or the 
C-terminus of the capsid protein D (pD) of phage lambda. The fusion proteins 
were expressed in E coli and solubility characteristics were compared. 
Polyclonal antibodies against the LBD as well as the pD protein were prepared 
for Western blot analysis and phage capture assay.
RESULTS: The pD-LBD fusion protein was partially soluble, whereas the LBD-g3p 
fusion protein was detected only in the insoluble fraction. The pD-LBD fusion 
protein was efficiently incorporated in phage particles. Furthermore, the LBD 
was shown to be displayed on the surface of bacteriophage lambda. On average, 
the pD-LBD fusion protein accounted for 28% of the total pD protein in the 
lambda head capsid.
CONCLUSION: The hydrophobic PPARgamma LBD was expressed as a soluble form of 
fusion protein in E coli and displayed on the surface of bacteriophage lambda 
when it was fused to the lambda pD protein. The lambda pD fusion system could be 
used for improving the solubility of proteins that tend to form inclusion bodies 
when expressed in E coli. The lambda phage particles displaying the LBD of 
PPARgamma may be of great value for the identification of novel PPARgamma 
ligands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7254.2006.00253.x
PMID: 16364215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Iran Biomed J. 2014 Jul;18(3):130-5. doi: 10.6091/ibj.1165.2014.

A single point mutation within the coding sequence of cholera toxin B subunit 
will increase its expression yield.

Bakhshi B(1), Boustanshenas M(2), Ghorbani M(3).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Bacteriology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Dept. of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Science and Research Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Research and Production Complex, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) has been extensively considered as an 
immunogenic and adjuvant protein, but its yield of expression is not 
satisfactory in many studies. The aim of this study was to compare the 
expression of native and mutant recombinant CTB (rCTB) in pQE vector.
METHODS: ctxB fragment from Vibrio cholerae O1 ATCC14035 containing the 
substitution of mutant ctxB for amino acid S128T was amplified by PCR and cloned 
in pGETM-T easy vector. It was then transformed to E. coli Top 10F' and cultured 
on LB agar plate containing ampicillin. Sequence analysis confirmed the mature 
ctxB gene sequence and the mutant one in both constructs which were further 
subcloned to pQE-30 vector. Both constructs were subsequently transformed to E. 
coli M15 (pREP4) for expression of mature and mutant rCTB.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE analysis showed the maximum expression of rCTB in both systems 
at 5 hours after induction and Western-blot analysis confirmed the presence of 
rCTB in blotting membranes. The expression of mutant rCTB was much higher than 
mature rCTB, which may be the result of serine-to-threonine substitution at 
position 128 of mature rCTB amino acid sequence created by PCR mutagenesis. The 
mutant rCTB retained pentameric stability and its ability to bind to anti- 
cholera toxin IgG antibodies.
CONCLUSION: Point mutation in ctxB sequence resulted in over-expression of rCTB, 
probably due to the increase of solubility of produced rCTB. Consequently, this 
expression system can be used to produce rCTB in high yield.

DOI: 10.6091/ibj.1165.2014
PMCID: PMC4048476
PMID: 24842138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2014 Apr 10;7:59. doi: 10.1186/1754-6834-7-59. eCollection 
2014.

Production of free monounsaturated fatty acids by metabolically engineered 
Escherichia coli.

Cao Y(#)(1), Liu W(#)(1), Xu X(1), Zhang H(1), Wang J(1), Xian M(1).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Bio-based Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) are the best components for 
biodiesel when considering the low temperature fluidity and oxidative stability. 
However, biodiesel derived from vegetable oils or microbial lipids always 
consists of significant amounts of polyunsaturated and saturated fatty acids 
(SFAs) alkyl esters, which hampers its practical applications. Therefore, the 
fatty acid composition should be modified to increase MUFA contents as well as 
enhancing oil and lipid production.
RESULTS: The model microorganism Escherichia coli was engineered to produce free 
MUFAs. The fatty acyl-ACP thioesterase (AtFatA) and fatty acid desaturase (SSI2) 
from Arabidopsis thaliana were heterologously expressed in E. coli BL21 
star(DE3) to specifically release free unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) and 
convert SFAs to UFAs. In addition, the endogenous fadD gene (encoding acyl-CoA 
synthetase) was disrupted to block fatty acid catabolism while the native 
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) was overexpressed to increase the malonyl 
coenzyme A (malonyl-CoA) pool and boost fatty acid biosynthesis. The finally 
engineered strain BL21ΔfadD/pE-AtFatAssi2&pA-acc produced 82.6 mg/L free fatty 
acids (FFAs) under shake-flask conditions and FFAs yield on glucose reached 
about 3.3% of the theoretical yield. Two types of MUFAs, palmitoleate (16:1Δ9) 
and cis-vaccenate (18:1Δ11) made up more than 75% of the FFA profiles. Fed-batch 
fermentation of this strain further enhanced FFAs production to a titer of 
1.27 g/L without affecting fatty acid compositions.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the possibility to regulate fatty acid 
composition by using metabolic engineering approaches. FFAs produced by the 
recombinant E. coli strain consisted of high-level MUFAs and biodiesel 
manufactured from these fatty acids would be more suitable for current diesel 
engines.

DOI: 10.1186/1754-6834-7-59
PMCID: PMC4021618
PMID: 24716602


974. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2021 Aug;44(8):1685-1697. doi: 
10.1007/s00449-021-02552-4. Epub 2021 Mar 22.

Analyzing the genetic characteristics of a tryptophan-overproducing Escherichia 
coli.

Ding D(1)(2)(3), Bai D(1)(2)(3), Li J(1)(4), Mao Z(5), Zhu Y(1)(2)(3), Liu 
P(1)(4), Lin J(1)(4)(6), Ma H(5), Zhang D(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Institutes of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratories of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China.
(3)National Technology Innovation Center of Synthetic Biology, Tianjin, 300308, 
People's Republic of China.
(4)Biodesign Center, Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China.
(5)Biodesign Center, Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin 
Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, 
300308, People's Republic of China.
(6)College of Pharmacy, Nankai University, Haihe Education Park, 38 Tongyan 
Road, Tianjin, 300353, People's Republic of China.
(7)Tianjin Institutes of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China. zhang_dw@tib.cas.cn.
(8)Key Laboratories of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China. zhang_dw@tib.cas.cn.
(9)National Technology Innovation Center of Synthetic Biology, Tianjin, 300308, 
People's Republic of China. zhang_dw@tib.cas.cn.

L-tryptophan (L-trp) production in Escherichia coli has been developed by 
employing random mutagenesis and selection for a long time, but this approach 
produces an unclear genetic background. Here, we generated the L-trp 
overproducer TPD5 by combining an intracellular L-trp biosensor and 
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) in E. coli, and succeeded in 
elucidating the genetic basis for L-trp overproduction. The most significant 
identified positive mutations affected TnaA (deletion), AroG (S211F), TrpE 
(A63V), and RpoS (nonsense mutation Q33*). The underlying structure-function 
relationships of the feedback-resistant AroG (S211F) and TrpE (A63V) mutants 
were uncovered based on protein structure modeling and molecular dynamics 
simulations, respectively. According to transcriptomic analysis, the global 
regulator RpoS not only has a great influence on cell growth and morphology, but 
also on carbon utilization and the direction of carbon flow. Finally, by 
balancing the concentrations of the L-trp precursors' serine and glutamine based 
on the above analysis, we further increased the titer of L-trp to 3.18 g/L with 
a yield of 0.18 g/g. The analysis of the genetic characteristics of an L-trp 
overproducing E. coli provides valuable information on L-trp synthesis and 
elucidates the phenotype and complex cellular properties in a high-yielding 
strain, which opens the possibility to transfer beneficial mutations and 
reconstruct an overproducer with a clean genetic background.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-021-02552-4
PMID: 33748869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Bioresour Bioprocess. 2021;8(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s40643-021-00404-3. Epub 2021 
Jun 12.

De novo biosynthesis of C-arabinosylated flavones by utilization of indica rice 
C-glycosyltransferases.

Chen Z(#)(1)(2), Sun Y(#)(1), Wang G(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2), Zhang Q(1)(2), Zhang 
Y(1)(2), Li J(1), Wang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)CAS-Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in 
Molecular Plant Sciences, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, 200032 China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100039 China.
(#)Contributed equally

Flavone C-arabinosides/xylosides are plant-originated glycoconjugates with 
various bioactivities. However, the potential utility of these molecules is 
hindered by their low abundance in nature. Engineering biosynthesis pathway in 
heterologous bacterial chassis provides a sustainable source of these 
C-glycosides. We previously reported bifunctional 
C-glucosyl/C-arabinosyltransferases in Oryza sativa japonica and O. sativa 
indica, which influence the C-glycoside spectrum in different rice varieties. In 
this study, we proved the C-arabinosyl-transferring activity of rice 
C-glycosyltransferases (CGTs) on the mono-C-glucoside substrate nothofagin, 
followed by taking advantage of specific CGTs and introducing heterologous 
UDP-pentose supply, to realize the production of eight different 
C-arabinosides/xylosides in recombinant E. coli. Fed-batch fermentation and 
precursor supplement maximized the titer of rice-originated C-arabinosides to 
20-110 mg/L in an E. coli chassis. The optimized final titer of schaftoside and 
apigenin di-C-arabinoside reached 19.87 and 113.16 mg/L, respectively. We 
demonstrate here the success of de novo bio-production of C-arabinosylated and 
C-xylosylated flavones by heterologous pathway reconstitution. These results lay 
a foundation for further optimal manufacture of complex flavonoid compounds in 
microbial cell factories.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1186/s40643-021-00404-3.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1186/s40643-021-00404-3
PMCID: PMC8196924
PMID: 34150466

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


976. Comput Biol Chem. 2021 Dec;95:107596. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2021.107596. 
Epub 2021 Oct 27.

Deep protein representations enable recombinant protein expression prediction.

Martiny HM(1), Armenteros JJA(2), Johansen AR(3), Salomon J(4), Nielsen H(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Group for Genomic Epidemiology, National Food Institute, Technical 
University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. Electronic address: 
hanmar@food.dtu.dk.
(2)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(4)Enzyme Research, Novozymes A/S, Krogshøjvej 36, 2880 Bagsværd, Denmark.
(5)Department of Health Technology, Section for Bioinformatics, Technical 
University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.

A crucial process in the production of industrial enzymes is recombinant gene 
expression, which aims to induce enzyme overexpression of the genes in a host 
microbe. Current approaches for securing overexpression rely on molecular tools 
such as adjusting the recombinant expression vector, adjusting cultivation 
conditions, or performing codon optimizations. However, such strategies are 
time-consuming, and an alternative strategy would be to select genes for better 
compatibility with the recombinant host. Several methods for predicting soluble 
expression are available; however, they are all optimized for the expression 
host Escherichia coli and do not consider the possibility of an expressed 
protein not being soluble. We show that these tools are not suited for 
predicting expression potential in the industrially important host Bacillus 
subtilis. Instead, we build a B. subtilis-specific machine learning model for 
expressibility prediction. Given millions of unlabelled proteins and a small 
labeled dataset, we can successfully train such a predictive model. The 
unlabeled proteins provide a performance boost relative to using amino acid 
frequencies of the labeled proteins as input. On average, we obtain a modest 
performance of 0.64 area-under-the-curve (AUC) and 0.2 Matthews correlation 
coefficient (MCC). However, we find that this is sufficient for the 
prioritization of expression candidates for high-throughput studies. Moreover, 
the predicted class probabilities are correlated with expression levels. A 
number of features related to protein expression, including base frequencies and 
solubility, are captured by the model.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2021.107596
PMID: 34775287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Nat Protoc. 2007;2(10):2632-9. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2007.400.

Protocol for preparing proteins with improved solubility by co-expressing with 
molecular chaperones in Escherichia coli.

de Marco A(1).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Core Facilities, EMBL, Meyerhofstrasse 1, D-69117 Heidelberg, 
Germany. ario.demarco@ifom-ieo-campus.it

Eight combinations of molecular chaperones (e.g., DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE/ClpB) are 
co-expressed with the target recombinant protein to compare their effectiveness 
in improving its soluble yield. This system allows the most complete and 
rational approach proposed so far to use the chaperone activity for optimizing 
the host cell folding machinery. Furthermore, a two-step protocol is presented, 
in which protein synthesis and protein refolding are uncoupled. Molecular 
chaperones and target protein accumulate in the first growth phase and target 
protein aggregates are then disaggregated in vivo after the block of protein 
synthesis. The optimal chaperone combination to maximize the soluble yield of a 
specific protein remains unpredictable. Therefore, a small-scale purification 
selection step is useful for screening among expression combinations before 
scaling-up production. Applying such a strategy, we could increase the 
solubility of 70% of the tested constructs with yields of up to 42-fold more 
protein than in controls. The procedure takes 2 d.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2007.400
PMID: 17948006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Methods Mol Biol. 2007;363:21-37. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-209-0_2.

Cloning, production, and purification of proteins for a medium-scale structural 
genomics project.

Quevillon-Cheruel S(1), Collinet B, Trésaugues L, Minard P, Henckes G, Aufrère 
R, Blondeau K, Zhou CZ, Liger D, Bettache N, Poupon A, Aboulfath I, Leulliot N, 
Janin J, van Tilbeurgh H.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biochimie et Biophysique Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Université de 
Paris-Sud, Orsay, France.

The South-Paris Yeast Structural Genomics Pilot Project 
(http://www.genomics.eu.org) aims at systematically expressing, purifying, and 
determining the three-dimensional structures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
proteins. We have already cloned 240 yeast open reading frames in the 
Escherichia coli pET system. Eighty-two percent of the targets can be expressed 
in E. coli, and 61% yield soluble protein. We have currently purified 58 
proteins. Twelve X-ray structures have been solved, six are in progress, and six 
other proteins gave crystals. In this chapter, we present the general 
experimental flowchart applied for this project. One of the main difficulties 
encountered in this pilot project was the low solubility of a great number of 
target proteins. We have developed parallel strategies to recover these proteins 
from inclusion bodies, including refolding, coexpression with chaperones, and an 
in vitro expression system. A limited proteolysis protocol, developed to 
localize flexible regions in proteins that could hinder crystallization, is also 
described.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-209-0_2
PMID: 17272835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Sep;41(9):1391-404. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-014-1489-1. Epub 2014 Jul 24.

Use of a stress-minimisation paradigm in high cell density fed-batch Escherichia 
coli fermentations to optimise recombinant protein production.

Wyre C(1), Overton TW.

Author information:
(1)Bioengineering, School of Chemical Engineering, and Institute of Microbiology 
and Infection, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.

Production of recombinant proteins is an industrially important technique in the 
biopharmaceutical sector. Many recombinant proteins are problematic to generate 
in a soluble form in bacteria as they readily form insoluble inclusion bodies. 
Recombinant protein solubility can be enhanced by minimising stress imposed on 
bacteria through decreasing growth temperature and the rate of recombinant 
protein production. In this study, we determined whether these 
stress-minimisation techniques can be successfully applied to industrially 
relevant high cell density Escherichia coli fermentations generating a 
recombinant protein prone to forming inclusion bodies, CheY-GFP. Flow cytometry 
was used as a routine technique to rapidly determine bacterial productivity and 
physiology at the single cell level, enabling determination of culture 
heterogeneity. We show that stress minimisation can be applied to high cell 
density fermentations (up to a dry cell weight of >70 g L(-1)) using 
semi-defined media and glucose or glycerol as carbon sources, and using early or 
late induction of recombinant protein production, to produce high yields (up to 
6 g L(-1)) of aggregation-prone recombinant protein in a soluble form. These 
results clearly demonstrate that stress minimisation is a viable option for the 
optimisation of high cell density industrial fermentations for the production of 
high yields of difficult-to-produce recombinant proteins, and present a workflow 
for the application of stress-minimisation techniques in a variety of 
fermentation protocols.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-014-1489-1
PMID: 25056840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Metab Eng. 2020 Sep;61:106-119. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.05.010. Epub 2020 May 
31.

Metabolic engineering for glycoglycerolipids production in E. coli: Tuning 
phosphatidic acid and UDP-glucose pathways.

Orive-Milla N(1), Delmulle T(2), de Mey M(2), Faijes M(3), Planas A(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Institut Químic de Sarrià, University Ramon 
Llull, Via Augusta 350, E-08017, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Centre for Synthetic Biology (CSB), Ghent University, Coupure Links 653, 
B-9000, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Institut Químic de Sarrià, University Ramon 
Llull, Via Augusta 350, E-08017, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
magda.faijes@iqs.edu.
(4)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Institut Químic de Sarrià, University Ramon 
Llull, Via Augusta 350, E-08017, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
antoni.planas@iqs.edu.

Glycolipids are target molecules in biotechnology and biomedicine as 
biosurfactants, biomaterials and bioactive molecules. An engineered E. coli 
strain for the production of glycoglycerolipids (GGL) used the MG517 glycolipid 
synthase from M. genitalium for glucosyl transfer from UDPGlc to diacylglycerol 
acceptor (Mora-Buyé et al., 2012). The intracellular diacylglycerol pool proved 
to be the limiting factor for GGL production. Here we designed different 
metabolic engineering strategies to enhance the availability of precursor 
substrates for the glycolipid synthase by modulating fatty acids, acyl donor and 
phosphatidic acid biosynthesis. Knockouts of tesA, fadE and fabR genes involved 
in fatty acids degradation, overexpression of the transcriptional regulator 
FadR, the acyltransferases PlsB and C, and the pyrophosphatase Cdh for 
phosphatidic acid biosynthesis, as well as the phosphatase PgpB for conversion 
to diacylglycerol were explored with the aim of improving GGL titers. Among the 
different engineered strains, the ΔtesA strain co-expressing MG517 and a fusion 
PlsCxPgpB protein was the best producer, with a 350% increase of GGL titer 
compared to the parental strain expressing MG517 alone. Attempts to boost UDPGlc 
availability by overexpressing the uridyltransferase GalU or knocking out the 
UDP-sugar diphosphatase encoding gene ushA did not further improve GGL titers. 
Most of the strains produced GGL containing a variable number of glucosyl units 
from mono-to tetra-saccharides. Interestingly, the strains co-expressing Cdh 
showed a shift in the GGL profile towards the diglucosylated lipid (up to 80% of 
total GGLs) whereas the strains with a fadR knockout presented a higher amount 
of unsaturated acyl chains. In all cases, GGL production altered the lipidic 
composition of the E. coli membrane, observing that GGL replace 
phosphatidylethanolamine to maintain the overall membrane charge balance.

Copyright © 2020 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.05.010
PMID: 32492511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Biotechnol Lett. 2019 Nov;41(11):1275-1282. doi: 10.1007/s10529-019-02733-y. 
Epub 2019 Sep 18.

Soluble overexpression of a flagellin derivative from Salmonella enterica using 
synonymous codon substitutions of 5'-coding region in Escherichia coli.

Cheong DE(1), Lee J(1), Choi HJ(1), Yoo SK(1), Lee DH(2), Kim GJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Research Center of Ecomimetics, College 
of Natural Sciences, Chonnam National University, Yongbong-ro, Buk-gu, Gwangju, 
61186, South Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences and Research Center of Ecomimetics, College 
of Natural Sciences, Chonnam National University, Yongbong-ro, Buk-gu, Gwangju, 
61186, South Korea. donghyunlee73@chonnam.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences and Research Center of Ecomimetics, College 
of Natural Sciences, Chonnam National University, Yongbong-ro, Buk-gu, Gwangju, 
61186, South Korea. gjkim@chonnam.ac.kr.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain a recombinant flagellin derivative CBLB502, expressed in 
functionally soluble form, the technology of library construction and screening 
of synonymous codon variants was employed, and its expression, solubility, and 
activity were assessed.
RESULTS: We screened several synonymous codon variants scvCBLB502s with the 
enhanced solubility from the constructed library, harboring the random 
substitutions of the first ten amino acid residues of the parental CBLB502 with 
synonymous codons. Among them, scvCBLB502-5 was purified (> 8.4 mg/l) by single 
step procedure using an affinity chromatography without any ancillary treatment 
with protease inhibitor cocktail solution and/or boiling at 90 °C. Subsequent 
study showed that the recombinant protein scvCBLB502-5 distinctly induced the 
TLR5 (Toll-Like Receptor 5)-mediated NF-κB activation and also IL-8 production 
in HEK293-hTLR5 cells.
CONCLUSION: Results showed that scvCBLB502-5, engineered through the synonymous 
codon substitutions, was easily expressed in functionally soluble form and 
maintained the proper folding to be recognized by TLR5, as an inducer for 
pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP).

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-019-02733-y
PMID: 31535307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. N Biotechnol. 2018 May 25;42:77-84. doi: 10.1016/j.nbt.2018.02.006. Epub 2018 
Feb 12.

A SEP tag enhances the expression, solubility and yield of recombinant TEV 
protease without altering its activity.

Nautiyal K(1), Kuroda Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan. 
Electronic address: ykuroda@cc.tuat.ac.jp.

Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) protease is used in the purification of recombinant 
proteins, but its usage is often hampered by solubility issues. Here, we report 
a short, 12-residue solubility enhancing peptide (SEP) tag attached at the 
C-terminus of TEV (TEV-C9R). We assessed the effects of the C9R tag on the 
biophysical and biochemical characteristics of TEV. The yield of HPLC purified 
TEV-C9R expressed in E. coli grown in 200 mL LB or TB media was between 10 and 
13 mg, which was up to 6.5 times higher than the yield of the untagged TEV 
(untagged-TEV). TEV-C9R was active over a pH range of 5-8, which was wider than 
that of the commonly used thrombin, and it remained active upon incubation at 
60 °C much longer than the untagged-TEV, which aggregated at this temperature. 
Static and dynamic light scattering demonstrated the higher solubility of 
purified TEV-C9R. Furthermore, the thermal unfolding of TEV-C9R, as assessed by 
circular dichroism at pH 4.7, was almost perfectly reversible, in contrast to 
that of untagged-TEV, which aggregated at high temperature. These results 
demonstrate the improved biophysical and biochemical characteristics of TEV-C9R 
originating from higher solubility and provide another example of how SEP tags 
can enhance enzyme solubility without altering its activity.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbt.2018.02.006
PMID: 29448030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Int Immunopharmacol. 2020 Aug;85:106617. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.106617. Epub 
2020 May 25.

Heterologous expression of Intimin and IpaB fusion protein in Lactococcus lactis 
and its mucosal delivery elicit protection against pathogenicity of Escherichia 
coli O157 and Shigella flexneri in a murine model.

Sagi S(1), Konduru B(2), Parida M(1).

Author information:
(1)Defence Food Research Laboratory, India.
(2)Defence Food Research Laboratory, India. Electronic address: 
kondurubk@gmail.com.

Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Shigella flexneri are the predominant diarrhoeal 
pathogens and those strains producing Shiga toxins cause life-threatening 
sequelae including hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) upon their entry into the 
host. Intimate adherence of E. coli O157 and invasion of S. flexneri in the host 
intestinal epithelial cells is mainly mediated by Intimin and IpaB proteins, 
respectively. In this study, we have synthesized chimera of immunodominant 
regions of Intimin (eae) and IpaB (ipaB) designated as EI and expressed it in 
Lactococcus lactis (LL-EI) to develop a combinatorial oral vaccine candidate. 
Immune parameters and protective efficacy of orally administered LL-EI were 
assessed in the murine model. Significant EI-specific serum IgG, IgA, and fecal 
IgA antibody titer were observed in the LL-EI group. Considerable increase in 
EI-specific splenocyte proliferation and a concurrent upregulation of both Th1 
and Th2 cytokines was observed in LL-EI immunized mice. Flow cytometry analysis 
also revealed a significant increase in CD4 and CD8 cell counts in LL-EI 
immunized group compared to PBS, LL control group.In vitro studies using LL-EI 
immunized mice sera showed substantial protection against bacterial adhesion and 
invasion caused by E. coli O157 and Shigella flexneri¸ respectively. LL-EI 
immunized group challenged with E. coli O157 ceased fecal shedding within 
6 days, and mice challenged with S. flexneri showed 93% survival with minimal 
bacterial load in the lungs. Our results indicate that LL-EI immunization 
elicits systemic, mucosal and cell-mediated immune responses, and can be a 
promising candidate for oral vaccine development against these pathogens.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.106617
PMID: 32464569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors 
authenticate no conflict of interest among them.


984. Sci Rep. 2021 Nov 29;11(1):23026. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-02445-2.

Expression and purification of a native Thy1-single-chain variable fragment for 
use in molecular imaging.

Jugniot N(1), Bam R(1), Paulmurugan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Molecular Imaging Program at Stanford (MIPS), Canary 
Center for Cancer Early Detection at Stanford, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford University, 3155 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA, 94304, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Molecular Imaging Program at Stanford (MIPS), Canary 
Center for Cancer Early Detection at Stanford, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford University, 3155 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, CA, 94304, USA. 
paulmur8@stanford.edu.

Molecular imaging using singlechain variable fragments (scFv) of antibodies 
targeting cancer specific antigens have been considered a non-immunogenic 
approach for early diagnosis in the clinic. Usually, production of proteins is 
performed within Escherichia coli. Recombinant proteins are either expressed in 
E. coli cytoplasm as insoluble inclusion bodies, that often need cumbersome 
denaturation and refolding processes, or secreted toward the periplasm as 
soluble proteins that highly reduce the overall yield. However, production of 
active scFvs in their native form, without any heterologous fusion, is required 
for clinical applications. In this study, we expressed an anti-thymocyte 
differentiation antigen-scFv (Thy1-scFv) as a fusion protein with a N-terminal 
sequence including 3 × hexa-histidines, as purification tags, together with a 
Trx-tag and a S-tag for enhanced-solubility. Our strategy allowed to recover ~ 
35% of Thy1-scFv in the soluble cytoplasmic fraction. An enterokinase cleavage 
site in between Thy1-scFv and the upstream tags was used to regenerate the 
protein with 97.7 ± 2.3% purity without any tags. Thy1-scFv showed functionality 
towards its target on flow cytometry assays. Finally, in vivo molecular imaging 
using Thy1-scFv conjugated to an ultrasound contrast agent (MBThy1-scFv) 
demonstrated signal enhancement on a transgenic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma 
(PDAC) mouse model (3.1 ± 1.2 a.u.) compared to non-targeted control (0.4 ± 0.4 
a.u.) suggesting potential for PDAC early diagnosis. Overall, our strategy 
facilitates the expression and purification of Thy1-scFv while introducing its 
ability for diagnostic molecular imaging of pancreatic cancer. The presented 
methodology could be expanded to other important eukaryotic proteins for various 
applications, including but not limited to molecular imaging.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-02445-2
PMCID: PMC8630227
PMID: 34845270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


985. PLoS One. 2016 May 11;11(5):e0155410. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155410. 
eCollection 2016.

Expression of Functional Human Sialyltransferases ST3Gal1 and ST6Gal1 in 
Escherichia coli.

Ortiz-Soto ME(1), Seibel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie, Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Am Hubland, 
97074, Würzburg, Germany.

Sialyltransferases (STs) are disulfide-containing, type II transmembrane 
glycoproteins that catalyze the transfer of sialic acid to proteins and lipids 
and participate in the synthesis of the core structure oligosaccharides of human 
milk. Sialic acids are found at the outermost position of glycostructures, 
playing a key role in health and disease. Sialylation is also essential for the 
production of recombinant therapeutic proteins (RTPs). Despite their importance, 
availability of sialyltransferases is limited due to the low levels of stable, 
soluble and active protein produced in bacterial expression systems, which 
hampers biochemical and structural studies on these enzymes and restricts 
biotechnological applications. We report the successful expression of active 
human sialyltransferases ST3Gal1 and ST6Gal1 in commercial Escherichia coli 
strains designed for production of disulfide-containing proteins. Fusion of 
hST3Gal1 with different solubility enhancers and substitution of exposed 
hydrophobic amino acids by negatively charged residues (supercharging-like 
approach) were performed to promote solubility and folding. Co-expression of 
sialyltransferases with the chaperon/foldases sulfhydryl oxidase, protein 
disulfide isomerase and disulfide isomerase C was explored to improve the 
formation of native disulfide bonds. Active sialyltransferases fused with 
maltose binding protein (MBP) were obtained in sufficient amounts for 
biochemical and structural studies when expressed under oxidative conditions and 
co-expression of folding factors increased the yields of active and properly 
folded sialyltransferases by 20%. Mutation of exposed hydrophobic amino acids 
increased recovery of active enzyme by 2.5-fold, yielding about 7 mg of purified 
protein per liter culture. Functionality of recombinant enzymes was evaluated in 
the synthesis of sialosides from the β-d-galactoside substrates lactose, 
N-acetyllactosamine and benzyl 
2-acetamido-2-deoxy-3-O-(β-d-galactopyranosyl)-α-d-galactopyranoside.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155410
PMCID: PMC4864186
PMID: 27166796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


986. Microb Cell Fact. 2005 Dec 13;4:34. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-4-34.

Simplified screening for the detection of soluble fusion constructs expressed in 
E. coli using a modular set of vectors.

Dümmler A(1), Lawrence AM, de Marco A.

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression and Purification Facility, EMBL, Meyerhofstr. 1, D-69117, 
Heidelberg, Germany. duemml01@stud.hs-zigr.de

BACKGROUND: The solubility of recombinant proteins expressed in bacteria is 
often disappointingly low. Several strategies have been developed to improve the 
yield and one of the most common strategies is the fusion of the target protein 
with a suitable partner. Despite several reports on the successful use of each 
of these carriers to increase the solubility of some recombinant proteins, none 
of them was always successful and a combinatorial approach seems more efficient 
to identify the optimal combination for a specific protein. Therefore, the 
efficiency of an expression system critically depends on the speed in the 
identification of the optimal combination for the suitable fusion candidate in a 
screening process. This paper describes a set of expression vectors (pETM) 
designed for rapid subcloning, expression and subsequent purification using 
immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC).
RESULTS: A single PCR product of two Yellow Fluorescent Proteins (EYFPs) was 
cloned into 18 vectors comprising identical restriction sites and varying fusion 
partners as well as differing protease recognition sites. After a small-scale 
expression, the yields of the different constructs were compared using a 
Coomassie stained SDS-polyacrylamide gel and the results of this preliminary 
screening were then confirmed by large-scale purification. The yields were 
calculated and the stability of the different constructs determined using three 
independent conditions. The results indicated a significant correlation between 
the length and composition of non-native amino acid tails and stability. 
Furthermore, the buffer specificity of TEV and 3C proteases was tested using 
fusion proteins differing only in their protease recognition sequence, and a 
His-GST-EYFP construct was employed to compare the efficiency of the two 
alternative affinity purification methods.
CONCLUSION: The experiments showed that the set of pETM vectors could be used 
for the rapid production of a large array of different constructs with specific 
yield, stability, and cleavage features. Their comparison allowed the 
identification of the optimal constructs to use for the large-scale expression. 
We expect that the approach outlined in this paper, i.e. the possibility to 
obtain in parallel fusion products of the target protein with different partners 
for a preliminary evaluation, would be highly beneficial for all them who are 
interested in the rapid identification of the optimal conditions for protein 
expression.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-4-34
PMCID: PMC1326211
PMID: 16351710


987. Vaccine. 2000 Nov 22;19(7-8):816-24. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(00)00245-0.

Differences in epitope recognition, isotype and titer of antisera to Plasmodium 
falciparum merozoite surface protein 4 raised by different modes of DNA or 
protein immunization.

Wang L(1), Menting JG, Black CG, Stowers A, Kaslow DC, Hoffman SL, Coppel RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Monash University, Vic., 3800, Clayton, 
Australia.

Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 4 (MSP4) is being developed as a 
component of a subunit vaccine against asexual stages of malaria. Three DNA 
constructs were produced that induced expression of MSP4 either in the cytoplasm 
of transfected cells or secreted from cells under the control of the human 
tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) signal or the native P. falciparum MSP4 
signal. Only the construct containing the TPA signal induced detectable 
antibodies in mice, although gene expression was demonstrated in all constructs 
and MSP4 was shown to be secreted using either signal by in vitro transient 
transfection of COS cells. Two recombinant MSP4 proteins that encoded the same 
sequence as the plasmid DNA were produced in E. coli (EcMSP4-His) and S. 
cerevisiae (yMSP4-His) and used to raise antibodies in mice. Comparison of the 
antibodies elicited by these various antigen formulations showed differences in 
titer, isotype and epitope recognition. The titer of antibodies induced by DNA 
vaccination was lower than that induced by yMSP4-His, which in turn was lower 
than that induced by EcMSP4-His. The isotype profiles of the antibodies were 
also different, the plasmid DNA induced predominantly IgG(2a) responses whereas 
the two proteins induced predominantly IgG(1) responses. The antibodies induced 
by DNA and yMSP4-His recognized predominantly the C-terminal epidermal growth 
factor (EGF)-like domain of the protein, whereas EcMSP4-His induced antibodies 
recognizing all domains of the protein equally. The antibodies induced by DNA 
vaccination were directed almost extensively to conformational epitopes so that 
reactivity with native MSP4 was abolished after disulfide bonds in the protein 
were disrupted. Antibodies induced by recombinant proteins recognized linear 
epitopes as well and reactivity to native MSP4 was preserved after reduction and 
alkylation of parasite proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(00)00245-0
PMID: 11115704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Vet Med Sci. 2012 Jun;74(6):693-7. doi: 10.1292/jvms.11-0428. Epub 2011 Dec 
28.

Epitope mapping of a monoclonal antibody against the Gp85 of avian leukosis 
virus subgroup J.

Sun M(1), Yu D, Mo H, Cao H, Chen C, Chen F.

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing 
100193, China.

Avian leukosis virus subgroup J poses a great threat to the poultry industry in 
China. To reduce the economic losses, a quick method for detection of ALV-J 
antigen is required for diagnosis and identification of the congenitally 
transmitting hens. In this study, we report the production and evaluation of one 
monoclonal antibody (MAb) suitable for achieving these goals. The gp85 gene of 
avian leukosis virus subgroup J CAUHM01 China isolates was subcloned into the 
expression vectors pGEX-6p-1 and pET28a and successfully expressed in E. coli. 
After immunizing BALB/c mice with recombinant His-Jgp85 protein, splenic cells 
from immunized mice were fused with SP2/0 myeloma cells to produce hybridomas. 
We isolated and characterized one ALV-J gp85-specific MAb by determining its 
titer, affinity and IgG subclass. In addition, we performed epitope mapping and 
determined the epitope for the MAb 1E3 to be 81-92 aa of ALV-J gp85 protein 
(LPWDPQELDILG). Bioinformatics analysis and IFA studies revealed that this 
epitope is conserved among all ALV-J isolates and that this antibody could serve 
as a useful reagent for ALV-J detection and diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.11-0428
PMID: 22214862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Mol Biotechnol. 2001 Jul;18(3):269-73. doi: 10.1385/MB:18:3:269.

High level of expression of the Toxoplasma gondii-recombinant Rop2 protein in 
Escherichia coli as a soluble form for optimal use in diagnosis.

Nigro M(1), Martin V, Kaufer F, Carral L, Angel SO, Pszenny V.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Parasitología Sanitaria, Instituto Nacional de Parasitología 
Dr. M. Fatala Chaben, ANLIS Dr. Carlos G. Malbrán, Av. Velez Sarsfield 563, 
1281-Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The rhoptry 2 protein (Rop2) is an interesting protein of Toxoplasma gondii that 
is involved in the parasite invasion of host cell, it has three T-cell epitopes 
and high antigenic value. However, the expression of Rop2 as a recombinant 
protein in Escherichia coli is not an easy task, showing low levels of 
expression or degradation and solubility problems. Using a recombinant 
Rop2(196-561) fused to 6 histidine residues, we showed high levels of expression 
in bacteria growing in terrific broth. rRop2(196-561) was purified mainly as a 
soluble product and in high concentrations (approx 1 mg/mL) under native 
conditions (40 mM imidazol in phosphate buffer). However, after a cycle of 
freezing-thawing rRop2(196-561) became insoluble. When glycerol was added to 
26%, immediately after purification, the protein stayed soluble after cycles of 
freezing-thawing. Finally, it was demonstrated that under these conditions 
soluble rRop2(196-561) keeps its diagnostic value in contrast with the insoluble 
protein.

DOI: 10.1385/MB:18:3:269
PMID: 11503520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Biomolecules. 2020 Nov 24;10(12):1592. doi: 10.3390/biom10121592.

Production of Circularly Permuted Caspase-2 for Affinity Fusion-Tag Removal: 
Cloning, Expression in Escherichia coli, Purification, and Characterization.

Cserjan-Puschmann M(1)(2), Lingg N(1)(2), Engele P(1)(3), Kröß C(1)(3), Loibl 
J(1), Fischer A(1), Bacher F(1), Frank AC(1)(2), Öhlknecht C(1)(4), Brocard 
C(5), Oostenbrink C(1)(4), Berkemeyer M(5), Schneider R(1)(3), Striedner 
G(1)(2), Jungbauer A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)ACIB-Austrian Centre of Industrial Biotechnology, Muthgasse 18, 1190 Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, University of Natural Resources and Life 
Sciences, Vienna, Muthgasse 18, 1190 Vienna, Austria.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry, Center for Molecular Biosciences Innsbruck (CMBI), 
University of Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
(4)Institute of Molecular Modeling and Simulation, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, Muthgasse 18, 1190 Vienna, Austria.
(5)Biopharma Process Science Austria, Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG, Dr. 
Boehringer-Gasse 5-11, 1121 Vienna, Austria.

Caspase-2 is the most specific protease of all caspases and therefore highly 
suitable as tag removal enzyme creating an authentic N-terminus of overexpressed 
tagged proteins of interest. The wild type human caspase-2 is a dimer of 
heterodimers generated by autocatalytic processing which is required for its 
enzymatic activity. We designed a circularly permuted caspase-2 (cpCasp2) to 
overcome the drawback of complex recombinant expression, purification and 
activation, cpCasp2 was constitutively active and expressed as a single chain 
protein. A 22 amino acid solubility tag and an optimized fermentation strategy 
realized with a model-based control algorithm further improved expression in 
Escherichia coli and 5.3 g/L of cpCasp2 in soluble form were obtained. The 
generated protease cleaved peptide and protein substrates, regardless of 
N-terminal amino acid with high activity and specificity. Edman degradation 
confirmed the correct N-terminal amino acid after tag removal, using 
Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 L3 as model substrate. Moreover, the generated 
enzyme is highly stable at -20 °C for one year and can undergo 25 freeze/thaw 
cycles without loss of enzyme activity. The generated cpCasp2 possesses all 
biophysical and biochemical properties required for efficient and economic tag 
removal and is ready for a platform fusion protein process.

DOI: 10.3390/biom10121592
PMCID: PMC7760212
PMID: 33255244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The funders had no role in the design of the 
study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


991. Protein Expr Purif. 2000 Feb;18(1):1-10. doi: 10.1006/prep.1999.1164.

Improved expression characteristics of single-chain Fv fragments when fused 
downstream of the Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein or upstream of a 
single immunoglobulin-constant domain.

Hayhurst A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Institute of Medical Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen, AB25 2SZ, Scotland.

The expression of single-chain Fv fragments (scFv) targeted to the periplasm of 
Escherichia coli often results in very low yields of soluble protein frequently 
accompanied by host cell growth arrest and sometimes lysis. Single-chain 
antibody fragments (scAb) are scFv with a human kappa light chain constant 
(HuCkappa) domain attached C-terminally and share similar problems of 
expression. By fusing the E. coli maltose-binding protein (mbp) gene either 3' 
or 5' to a scAb specific for the herbicide atrazine, a reduction in growth 
arrest was observed that was dependent on the order of gene fusion. The scAb-mbp 
fusion delayed the onset of growth arrest following induction while the mbp-scAb 
fusion appeared to ablate growth arrest completely. Cell fractionation revealed 
barely detectable levels of scAb-mbp in the periplasm while mbp-scAb was 
detected at equivalent levels as scAb in the periplasmic compartment, indicating 
that periplasmic scAb solubility is unrelated to propensity to cause growth 
arrest. IMAC purification of scAb and mbp-scAb proteins followed by liquid 
competition ELISA revealed the IC(50) for atrazine to be approximately 1 nM for 
both proteins demonstrating that 5'-mbp fusion does not alter antigen binding. 
The equivalent scFv and mbp-scFv vectors expressed far less material in both 
periplasmic and insoluble fractions indicating that the HuCkappa domain can have 
a positive effect on scFv expression when expressed either alone or as a mbp 
fusion. The ablation of growth arrest by a 5'-mbp fusion and enhancement of 
expression by a 3'-HuCkappa domain fusion were extended to a second scFv 
specific for the herbicide diuron. Therefore, by expressing scFv as tripartite 
fusions (mbp-scFv-HuCkappa) enhanced levels of soluble periplasmic expression 
can be achieved without causing growth arrest of the host cell, realizing the 
potential for constitutive expression of hapten-binding scFv in the E. coli 
periplasm.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/prep.1999.1164
PMID: 10648163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Jul;135:37-44. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.05.001. Epub 
2017 May 6.

Functional efficacy of human recombinant FGF-2s tagged with (His)(6) and 
(His-Asn)(6) at the N- and C-termini in human gingival fibroblast and 
periodontal ligament-derived cells.

Lee JH(1), Lee JE(1), Kang KJ(1), Jang YJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nanobiomedical Science & BK21 PLUS Global Research Center for 
Regenerative Medicine, Dankook University, 29 Anseo-Dong, Cheonan, 330-714, 
South Korea.
(2)Department of Nanobiomedical Science & BK21 PLUS Global Research Center for 
Regenerative Medicine, Dankook University, 29 Anseo-Dong, Cheonan, 330-714, 
South Korea. Electronic address: yjjang@dankook.ac.kr.

Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) is a multifunctional growth factor that induces 
cell proliferation, survival, migration, and differentiation in various cell 
types and tissues. With these biological functions, FGF-2 has been evaluated for 
clinical use in the regeneration of damaged tissues. The expression of hFGF-2 in 
Escherichia coli and a purification system using the immobilized metal affinity 
chromatography (IMAC) is well established to generate a continuous supply of 
FGF-2. Although hexa-histidine tag (H6) is commonly used for IMAC purification, 
hexa-histidine-asparagine tag (HN6) is also efficient for purification as it is 
easily exposed on the surface of the protein. In this study, four different 
tagging constructs of hFGF-2 based on tag positions and types (H6-FGF2, FGF2-H6, 
HN6-FGF2, and FGF2-HN6) were designed and expressed under the inducible T7 
expression system in E. coli. The experimental conditions of expression and 
purification of each recombinant protein were optimized. The effective dosages 
of the recombinant proteins were determined based on the increase of cell 
proliferation in human gingival fibroblast. ED50s of H6-FGF2, FGF2-H6, HN6-FGF2, 
and FGF2-HN6 were determined (4.42 ng/ml, 3.55 ng/ml, 3.54 ng/ml, and 
4.14 ng/ml, respectively) and found to be comparable to commercial FGF-2 
(3.67 ng/ml). All the recombinant hFGF-2s inhibit the osteogenic induction and 
mineralization in human periodontal ligament-derived cells. Our data suggested 
that biological activities of the recombinant hFGF-2 are irrelevant to types and 
positions of tags, but may have an influence on the expression efficiency and 
solubility.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.05.001
PMID: 28487257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. ACS Synth Biol. 2014 Jul 18;3(7):466-75. doi: 10.1021/sb4001382. Epub 2014 Feb 
27.

Microbial synthesis of pinene.

Sarria S(1), Wong B, García Martín H, Keasling JD, Peralta-Yahya P.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Biochemistry and ⊥School of Chemical and Biomolecular 
Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology , Atlanta, Georgia 30332, United 
States.

The volumetric heating values of today's biofuels are too low to power 
energy-intensive aircraft, rockets, and missiles. Recently, pinene dimers were 
shown to have a volumetric heating value similar to that of the tactical fuel 
JP-10. To provide a sustainable source of pinene, we engineered Escherichia coli 
for pinene production. We combinatorially expressed three pinene synthases (PS) 
and three geranyl diphosphate synthases (GPPS), with the best combination 
achieving ~28 mg/L of pinene. We speculated that pinene toxicity was limiting 
production; however, toxicity should not be limiting at current titers. Because 
GPPS is inhibited by geranyl diphosphate (GPP) and to increase flux through the 
pathway, we combinatorially constructed GPPS-PS protein fusions. The Abies 
grandis GPPS-PS fusion produced 32 mg/L of pinene, a 6-fold improvement over the 
highest titer previously reported in engineered E. coli. Finally, we 
investigated the pinene isomer ratio of our pinene-producing microbe and 
discovered that the isomer profile is determined not only by the identity of the 
PS used but also by the identity of the GPPS with which the PS is paired. We 
demonstrated that the GPP concentration available to PS for cyclization alters 
the pinene isomer ratio.

DOI: 10.1021/sb4001382
PMID: 24679043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2010 Mar 12;393(3):509-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.02.036. Epub 2010 Feb 10.

A strategy for the production of soluble human senescence marker protein-30 in 
Escherichia coli.

Choi MS(1), Saxena A, Chilukuri N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bacterial and Rickettsial Diseases, Walter Reed Army Institute of 
Research, Silver Spring, MD 20910, USA. moonsuk.choi@amedd.army.mil

Senescence marker protein-30 (SMP30) has been reported to hydrolyze diisopropyl 
fluorophosphate (DFP), a surrogate compound of chemical warfare nerve agents. 
Thus, SMP30 has the potential to be useful as a prophylactic against chemical 
warfare nerve agent toxicity. Our efforts to generate human SMP30 in bacteria 
using a variety of expression vectors invariably resulted in insoluble and 
inactive preparations. In this study, properly folded and active recombinant 
human SMP30 (rHuSMP30) was produced in Escherichia coli by coexpressing it with 
molecular chaperones in a combined strategy. The coexpression of rHuSMP30 with 
GroES/GroEL/Tf at 15 degrees C, combined with the addition of a membrane 
fluidizer, increased osmolytes, and a two-step expression resulted in the 
highest enhancement of solubility and DFPase activity. Our results pave the way 
for exploring the use of rHuSMP30 against organophosphate and nerve agent 
toxicity.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.02.036
PMID: 20152811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Chem Biol Interact. 2001 Jan 30;130-132(1-3):749-59. doi: 
10.1016/s0009-2797(00)00305-7.

Human 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1/carbonyl reductase: additional 
domains for membrane attachment?

Blum A(1), Raum A, Martin H, Maser E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Medicine, 
Philipps-University of Marburg, Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 1, D-35033, Marburg, 
Germany.

11beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD 1) is a membrane 
integrated glycoprotein, which physiologically performs the interconversion of 
active and inactive glucocorticoid hormones and which also participates in 
xenobiotic carbonyl compound detoxification. Since 11beta-HSD 1 is fixed to the 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) with a N-terminal membrane spanning domain, the 
enzyme is very difficult to purify in an active state. Upon expression 
experiments in Escherichia coli, 11beta-HSD 1 turns out to be hardly soluble 
without detergents. This study describes attempts to increase the solubility of 
11beta-HSD 1 via mutagenesis experiments by generating several truncated forms 
expressed in E. coli and the yeast Pichia pastoris. Furthermore, we investigated 
if the codon for methionine 31 in human 11beta-HSD 1 could serve as an 
alternative start codon, thereby leading to a soluble form of the enzyme, which 
lacks the membrane spanning segment. Our results show that deletion of the 
hydrophobic membrane spanning domain did not alter the solubility of the enzyme. 
In contrast, the enzyme remained bound to the ER membrane even without the 
N-terminal membrane anchor. However, activity could not be found, neither with 
the truncated protein expressed in E. coli nor with that expressed in P. 
pastoris. Hydrophobicity plots proved the hydrophobic nature of 11beta-HSD 1 and 
indicated the existence of additional membrane attachment sites within its 
primary structure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-2797(00)00305-7
PMID: 11306091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2009 Jan 1;14(6):2285-92. doi: 10.2741/3379.

Expression of aromatase CYP19 and its relationship with parameters in NSCLC.

Oyama T(1), Kagawa N, Sugio K, Uramoto H, Hatano O, Harada N, Kaneko K, Kawamoto 
T, Yasumoto K.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery and Department of Environmental Health, 
University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, 807-8555, 
Japan. oyama@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

Human aromatase (CYP19) responsible for the conversion of androgens to estrogens 
is expressed not only in gonads and adrenals but also in many other tissues, 
including normal lungs and lung cancers. To investigate the involvement of CYP19 
in lung cancer development, purified CYP19 protein and antibody are required. In 
this study, we have developed an efficient expression method of human aromatase 
in E. coli (>1000 nmol/L culture). The protein purified from E. coli was used to 
raise an antibody against the human CYP19 in rabbits. The resulting antibody 
showed a high titer judged by ELISA, which allowed us to determine the 
expression of CYP19 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Of 78 NSCLC specimens 
from Japanese patients, 50 (64%) NSCLC aberrantly expressed CYP19. This CYP19 
expression in NSCLC was independent of any clinical and pathological parameters 
as well as the expression of other P450s, except tumor stage. The results 
suggest that the aromatase inhibitors might be useful for the management of 
non-small cell lung cancer in postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.2741/3379
PMID: 19273201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2009 Nov;29(11):2156-60.

[Application of a prediction model in inclusion body refolding].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang T(1), Wang JF, Feng YY, Yang Z, Ma L, Wang XN.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China. tinazhang2007@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To establish a prediction method for the refolding of inclusion 
bodies and classify refolding types of different inclusion bodies directly from 
their primary structure to improve the efficiency of high throughput refolding 
process.
METHODS: Forty-three recombinant proteins performing important biological 
functions were expressed in E. coli. The probability of forming inclusion bodies 
of these proteins was predicted using Harrison's two parameter prediction model 
based on the proteins' amino acid composition. Subsequently, the proteins from 
the inclusion bodies were refolded using a double denaturation method that 
involved washing and denaturation in GdnHCl solution followed by denaturation in 
Urea solution and refolding through dilution.
RESULTS: All the proteins were detected in the form of inclusion bodies using 
SDS-PAGE method. The proteins were divided into two types according to the 
results of both solubility prediction and refolding experiments. Fourteen 
proteins were predicted to have the dependency of soluble expression. The 
refolding yields of these inclusion bodies were up to 70%. Twenty-nine proteins 
were predicted to have the high dependency of insoluble expression, and their 
refolding yields could be higher than 70% and lower than 60%. Comparison of the 
characteristics between the proteins with high and low refolding yields showed 
that the theoretical pI was significantly different (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Harrison's two parameter prediction model has the value for 
potential application in classification of the inclusion bodies and prediction 
of solubility of proteins refolded from different inclusion bodies. This a novel 
method enhances the efficiency of high throughput refolding of inclusion bodies, 
and suggests that the theoretical pI of the proteins is an important parameter 
in the prediction of refolding yields.

PMID: 19923054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Vaccine. 2011 Jun 15;29(27):4521-33. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.03.082. Epub 
2011 Apr 17.

A plant based protective antigen [PA(dIV)] vaccine expressed in chloroplasts 
demonstrates protective immunity in mice against anthrax.

Gorantala J(1), Grover S, Goel D, Rahi A, Jayadev Magani SK, Chandra S, 
Bhatnagar R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering, School of 
Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.

The currently available anthrax vaccines are limited by being incompletely 
characterized, potentially reactogenic and have an expanded dosage schedule. 
Plant based vaccines offer safe alternative for vaccine production. In the 
present study, we expressed domain IV of Bacillus anthracis protective antigen 
gene [PA(dIV)] in planta (by nuclear agrobacterium and chloroplast 
transformation) and E. coli [rPA(dIV)]. The presence of transgene and the 
expression of PA(dIV) in planta was confirmed by molecular analysis. Expression 
levels up to 5.3% of total soluble protein (TSP) were obtained with AT rich 
(71.8% AT content) PA(dIV) gene in transplastomic plants while 0.8% of TSP was 
obtained in nuclear transformants. Further, we investigated the protective 
response of plant and E. coli derived PA(dIV) in mice by intraperitoneal (i.p.) 
and oral immunizations with or without adjuvant. Antibody titers of >10(4) were 
induced upon i.p. and oral immunizations with plant derived PA(dIV) and oral 
immunization with E. coli derived PA(dIV). Intraperitoneal injections with 
adjuvanted E. coli derived PA(dIV), generated highest antibody titers of >10(5). 
All the immunized groups demonstrated predominant IgG1 titers over IgG2a 
indicating a polarized Th2 type response. We also evaluated the mucosal antibody 
response in orally immunized groups. When fecal extracts were analyzed, low sIgA 
titer was demonstrated in adjuvanted plant and E. coli derived PA(dIV) groups. 
Further, PA(dIV) antisera enhanced B. anthracis spore uptake by macrophages in 
vitro and also demonstrated an anti-germinating effect suggesting a potent role 
at mucosal surfaces. The antibodies from various groups were efficient in 
neutralizing the lethal toxin in vitro. When mice were challenged with B. 
anthracis, mice immunized with adjuvanted plant PA(dIV) imparted 60% and 40% 
protection while E. coli derived PA(dIV) conferred 100% and 80% protection upon 
i.p. and oral immunizations. Thus, our study is the first attempt in 
highlighting the efficacy of plant expressed PA(dIV) by oral immunization in 
murine model.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.03.082
PMID: 21504775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Mol Biol Rep. 2020 Aug;47(8):5943-5951. doi: 10.1007/s11033-020-05667-1. Epub 
2020 Jul 22.

Heterologous expression, purification, and refolding of SRY protein: role of 
L-arginine as analyzed by simulation and practical study.

Soleymani B(1), Barzegari E(2), Mansouri K(2), Karami K(2), Mohammadi P(2), 
Kiani S(2), Moasefi N(2), Tabar MS(3), Mostafaie A(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Biology Research Center, Health Technology Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. bijan.soleymani@kums.ac.ir.
(2)Medical Biology Research Center, Health Technology Institute, Kermanshah 
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(3)School of Life and Environmental Science, University of Sydney, Camperdown, 
Australia.

Escherichia coli is a widely-used cell factory for recombinant protein 
production, nevertheless, high amount of produced protein is seen in aggregated 
form. The purpose of this study was to improve the solubility of recombinant 
bovine sex-determining region Y protein (rbSRY) by exploring the effect of 
temperature, inducer, and water-arginine mixed solvent. Codon-optimized rbSRY 
expressed in Rosetta-gami B (DE3) pLysS and purified by NI-NTA His-select 
affinity chromatography in the native and denaturing conditions. A 
three-dimensional model of SRY was built and studied through molecular dynamics 
simulations in water and in the presence of L-arginine as co-solvent. Results 
indicated the significant effects of temperature and IPTG concentration 
(P < 0.001) on the solubility of rbSRY. The binding activity of native, 
inclusion bodies and refolded fractions to anti-rbSRY monoclonal antibody were 
concentration-dependent (P < 0.001). Based on molecular modeling results, the 
propensity of fragments in the N-terminal domain to form β-sheet and the 
relative instability of α-helices in terminal domains are the probable reasons 
for the high aggregation potential of SRY, which are mitigated in the presence 
of L-arginine. Altogether, our rbSRY protein was properly produced and applying 
appropriate culture conditions could help enhance its solubility, refold 
inclusion bodies, and improve its activity upon refolding.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-020-05667-1
PMID: 32696344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1177:59-70. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-1034-2_5.

Simplified protein purification using an autoprocessing, inducible enzyme tag.

Shen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Vermont, 95 
Carrigan Drive, Burlington, VT, 05405, USA, aimee.shen@uvm.edu.

The development of affinity tags has greatly simplified protein purification 
procedures. A variety of affinity tags are now available to improve expression, 
solubility, and/or tag removal. In this chapter, we describe a method for 
purifying recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli that uses a highly 
specific, inducible, C-terminal autoprocessing protease tag. This method 
streamlines affinity purification, cleavage, and tag separation into a one-step 
purification procedure, avoiding the need to remove fusion tags from target 
proteins with exogenous proteases. In addition to accelerating protein 
purification, we show that this method can enhance the expression, stability, 
and solubility of select proteins.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-1034-2_5
PMCID: PMC4377278
PMID: 24943314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2016 Aug;113(8):1755-63. doi: 10.1002/bit.25943. Epub 2016 
Feb 4.

Efflux transporter engineering markedly improves amorphadiene production in 
Escherichia coli.

Zhang C(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Stephanopoulos G(1)(3), Too HP(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Chemical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Singapore-MIT Alliance, 4 
Engineering Drive 3, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Biotransformation Innovation Platform (BioTrans), Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(4)Chemical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Singapore-MIT Alliance, 4 
Engineering Drive 3, Singapore, Singapore. heng-phon_too@nuhs.edu.sg.
(5)Biotransformation Innovation Platform (BioTrans), Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore, Singapore. 
heng-phon_too@nuhs.edu.sg.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, 8 Medical Drive, Blk MD7, Level 4, Singapore, 117597, 
Singapore. heng-phon_too@nuhs.edu.sg.

Metabolic engineering aims at altering cellular metabolism to produce valuable 
products at high yields and titers. Achieving high titers and productivity can 
be challenging if final products are largely accumulated intracellularly. A 
potential solution to this problem is to facilitate the export of these 
substances from cells by membrane transporters. Amorphadiene, the precursor of 
antimalarial drug artemisinin, is known to be secreted from Escherichia coli 
overexpressing the biosynthetic pathway. In order to assess the involvement of 
various endogenous efflux pumps in amorphadiene transport, the effects of single 
gene deletion of 16 known multidrug-resistant membrane efflux transporters were 
examined. The outer membrane protein TolC was found to be intimately involved in 
amorphadiene efflux. The overexpression of tolC together with ABC family 
transporters (macAB) or MFS family transporters (emrAB or emrKY) enhanced 
amorphadiene titer by more than threefold. In addition, the overexpression of 
transporters in the lipopolysaccharide transport system (msbA, lptD, lptCABFG) 
was found to improve amorphadiene production. As efflux transporters often have 
a wide range of substrate specificity, the multiple families of transporters 
were co-expressed and synergistic benefits were observed in amorphadiene 
production. This strategy of screening and then rationally engineering 
transporters can be used to improve the production of other valuable compounds 
in E. coli. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2016;113: 1755-1763. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25943
PMID: 26804325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Nov;175:105687. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105687. Epub 
2020 Jul 15.

Generation of a soluble and stable apoptin-EGF fusion protein, a targeted viral 
protein applicable for tumor therapy.

Niesler N(1), Arndt J(2), Silberreis K(3), Fuchs H(4).

Author information:
(1)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health; Institut 
für Laboratoriumsmedizin, Klinische Chemie und Pathobiochemie, Augustenburger 
Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany; Berlin Institute of Health (BIH), 
Anna-Louisa-Karsch-Str. 2, 10178, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health; Institut 
für Laboratoriumsmedizin, Klinische Chemie und Pathobiochemie, Augustenburger 
Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health; Institut 
für Laboratoriumsmedizin, Klinische Chemie und Pathobiochemie, Augustenburger 
Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany; Institute of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Freie 
Universität Berlin, Takustr. 3, 14195, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health; Institut 
für Laboratoriumsmedizin, Klinische Chemie und Pathobiochemie, Augustenburger 
Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: hendrik.fuchs@charite.de.

A promising candidate for tumor targeted toxins is the chicken anemia-derived 
protein apoptin that induces tumor-specific apoptosis. It was aimed to design a 
novel apoptin-based targeted toxin by genetic fusion of apoptin with the 
tumor-directed ligand epidermal growth factor (EGF) using Escherichia coli as 
expression host. However, apoptin is highly hydrophobic and tends to form 
insoluble aggregates. Therefore, three different apoptin-EGF variants were 
generated. The fusion protein hexa-histidine (His)-apoptin-EGF (HAE) was 
expressed in E. coli and purified under denaturing conditions due to inclusion 
bodies. The protein solubility was improved by maltose-binding protein (MBP) or 
glutathione S-transferase. The protein MBP-apoptin-EGFHis (MAEH) was found 
favorable as a targeted toxin regarding final yield (4-6 mg/L) and stability. 
MBP was enzymatically removed using clotting factor Xa, which resulted in low 
yield and poor separation. MAEH was tested on target and non-target cell lines. 
The targeted tumor cell line A431 showed significant toxicity with an IC50 of 
69.55 nM upon incubation with MAEH while fibroblasts and target receptor-free 
cells remained unaffected. Here we designed a novel EGF receptor targeting drug 
with high yield, purity and stability.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105687
PMID: 32681952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2009 Dec 15;104(6):1047-58. doi: 10.1002/bit.22517.

Cell-free production of transducible transcription factors for nuclear 
reprogramming.

Yang WC(1), Patel KG, Lee J, Ghebremariam YT, Wong HE, Cooke JP, Swartz JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, California 94305, USA.

Ectopic expression of a defined set of transcription factors chosen from Oct3/4, 
Sox2, c-Myc, Klf4, Nanog, and Lin28 can directly reprogram somatic cells to 
pluripotency. These reprogrammed cells are referred to as induced pluripotent 
stem cells (iPSCs). To date, iPSCs have been successfully generated using 
lentiviruses, retroviruses, adenoviruses, plasmids, transposons, and recombinant 
proteins. Nucleic acid-based approaches raise concerns about genomic 
instability. In contrast, a protein-based approach for iPSC generation can avoid 
DNA integration concerns as well as provide greater control over the 
concentration, timing, and sequence of transcription factor stimulation. 
Researchers recently demonstrated that polyarginine peptide conjugation can 
deliver recombinant protein reprogramming factor (RF) cargoes into cells and 
reprogram somatic cells into iPSCs. However, the protein-based approach requires 
a significant amount of protein for the reprogramming process. Producing fusion 
RFs in the large amounts required for this approach using traditional 
heterologous in vivo production methods is difficult and cumbersome since 
toxicity, product aggregation, and proteolysis by endogenous proteases limit 
yields. In this work, we show that cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) is a 
viable option for producing soluble and functional transducible transcription 
factors for nuclear reprogramming. We used an E. coli-based CFPS system to 
express the above set of six human RFs as fusion proteins, each with a 
nona-arginine (R9) protein transduction domain. Using the flexibility offered by 
the CFPS platform, we successfully addressed proteolysis and protein solubility 
problems to produce full-length and soluble R9-RF fusions. We subsequently 
showed that R9-Oct3/4, R9-Sox2, and R9-Nanog exhibit cognate DNA-binding 
activities, R9-Nanog translocates across the plasma and nuclear membranes, and 
R9-Sox2 exerts transcriptional activity on a known downstream gene target.

2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.22517
PMCID: PMC3142170
PMID: 19718703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Microbiol Res. 2011 Dec 20;167(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2011.02.002. Epub 
2011 Apr 8.

Recombinant outer membrane protein A (OmpA) of Edwardsiella tarda, a potential 
vaccine candidate for fish, common carp.

Maiti B(1), Shetty M, Shekar M, Karunasagar I, Karunasagar I.

Author information:
(1)UNESCO-MIRCEN for Marine Biotechnology, Department of Fishery Microbiology, 
Karnataka Veterinary, Animal & Fisheries Sciences University, College of 
Fisheries, Mangalore, India.

Outer membrane protein A (OmpA) is a component of the outer membrane of 
Edwardsiella tarda and is wildly distributed in Enterobacteriaceae family. The 
gene encoding the OmpA protein was cloned from E. tarda and expressed in 
Escherichia coli M15 cells. The recombinant OmpA protein containing His(6) 
residues was estimated to have a molecular weight of ~38kDa. In Western blot the 
native protein showed expression at ~36kDa molecular weight which was within the 
range of major outer membrane proteins (36-44kDa) observed in this study. All E. 
tarda isolates tested harbored the ompA gene and the antibody raised to this 
protein was seen to cross react with other Gram negative bacteria. The OmpA 
protein characterized in this study was observed to be highly immunogenic in 
both rabbit and fish. In Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, rabbit antisera 
showed an antibody titer of 1: 128,000. Common carp vaccinated with recombinant 
OmpA protein elicited high antibody production and immunized fish showed a 
relative percentage survival of 54.3 on challenge.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2011.02.002
PMID: 21482086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2021 Apr 28;31(4):529-539. doi: 10.4014/jmb.2012.12045.

Antiviral Treatment Reveals a Cooperative Pathogenicity of Baculovirus and 
Iflavirus in Spodoptera exigua, a Lepidopteran Insect.

Roy MC(1), Ahmed S(1), Mollah MMI(1), Kim Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Medicals, College of Life Sciences, Andong National 
University, Andong 36729, Republic of Korea.

NPVThe beet armyworm, Spodoptera exigua, is a serious insect pest infesting 
various vegetable crops. Two infectious insect viruses, baculovirus and 
iflavirus, are known to induce epizootics in S. exigua populations. Indeed, some 
laboratory colonies have appeared to be covertly infected by these viruses. 
Diagnostic PCR tests detected two different viruses: Spodoptera exigua multiple 
nucleopolyhedrosis virus (SeMNPV) and iflaviruses (SeIfV1 and SeIfV2). Viral 
extract from dead larvae of S. exigua could infect Sf9 cells and produce 
occlusion bodies (OBs). Feeding OBs to asymptomatic larvae of S. exigua caused 
significant viral disease. Interestingly, both SeIfV1 and SeIfV2 increased their 
titers at late larval stages. Sterilization of laid eggs with 1% sodium 
hypochloride significantly reduced SeMNPV titers and increased larval survival 
rate. Doublestranded RNA (dsRNA) specific to SeIfV1 or SeIfV2 significantly 
reduced viral titers and increased larval survival rate. To continuously feed 
dsRNA, a recombinant Escherichia coli HT115 expressing SeIfV1-dsRNA was 
constructed with an L4440 expression vector. Adding this recombinant E. coli to 
the artificial diet significantly reduced the SeIfV1 titer and increased larval 
survival. These results indicate that laboratory colony collapse of S. exigua is 
induced by multiple viral infections. In addition, either suppression of SeMNPV 
or SeIfV infection significantly increased larval survival, suggesting a 
cooperative pathogenicity between baculovirus and iflavirus against S. exigua.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.2012.12045
PMID: 33526755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2012 Nov;34(11):810-5. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2012.11.003.

[High expression of HPV16L2N120E7E6 fusion protein in E. coli and its inhibitory 
effect on tumor growth in mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao L(1), Gao M, Gao J, Ren J, Zhang H, Tian HW, Tan WJ, Ruan L.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the high expression of HPV16L2N120E7E6 fusion protein 
by prokaryotic expression system, and evaluate its immunogenicity and antitumor 
efficacy in vaccinated mice.
METHODS: The HPV16L2N120E7E6 fusion gene, its codons were optimized to increase 
the expression of the protein, was constructed by overlap extension PCR and 
inserted into prokaryotic expression vector pET9a. Then the fusion protein was 
expressed by inducing with IPTG in E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) harboring with 
plasmid pETL2N120E7E6, and further detected by SDS-PAGE and Western-blot. 
Finally, the humoral and cellular immune responses were measured by ELISA and 
ELISPOT, respectively, in vaccinated mice with the purified HPV16L2N120E7E6 
fusion protein, and the antitumor efficacy was assessed in mice using the TC-1 
tumor challenge model.
RESULTS: The codon-optimized HPV16L2N120E7E6 fusion gene was highly expressed in 
E. coli strain BL21 (DE3) harboring with plasmid pETL2N120E7E6, and the amount 
of fusion protein was nearly 48.6% of the total bacterial protein. The purified 
fusion protein could induce high titer of specific antibody against L2, E7 and 
E6 in vaccinated mice. When accompanied with the adjuvant CpG, the fusion 
protein was able to elicit strong and moderate cellular immune responses in 
vaccinated mice against peptide HPV16E7(49-57) and peptide pools of HPV16E6, 
respectively. Furthermore, the tumor therapeutic experiment showed that 
HPV16L2N120E7E6 + CpG could prevent the tumor formation in 80.0% (8/10) 
vaccinated mice.
CONCLUSIONS: The data of this study suggest that HPV16L2N120E7E6 fusion protein 
could be a promising candidate vaccine for treatment of chronic HPV16 infection 
and post-operative adjuvant therapy for cervical cancer.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2012.11.003
PMID: 23291127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Jun;77(2):220-3. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.02.003. Epub 
2011 Feb 17.

Expression and purification of full-length anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 using cell-free 
protein synthesis.

Pedersen A(1), Wallgren M, Karlsson BG, Gröbner G.

Author information:
(1)Swedish NMR Centre, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.

The anti-apoptotic B cell CLL/lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) protein is a key player in the 
regulation of programmed cell death and is linked to various types of cancer and 
their resistance to drug treatment. Biophysical and structural studies of the 
full-length intact Bcl-2 have been hampered due to difficulties in expression 
and severe solubility problems, precluding isolation of this hydrophobic 
membrane protein. Therefore, previous work has so far mainly been carried out 
using structurally modified Bcl-2 variants, lacking the transmembrane region. 
Thus, biophysical information regarding the full-length protein is still 
missing. Here, a protocol is presented for expression and purification of 
preparative amounts of the full-length human isoform 2 of Bcl-2 (Bcl-2(2)). A 
batch-based cell-free expression system, using extract isolated from Escherichia 
coli (E. coli) was employed to produce recombinant protein encoded by an 
optimized gene sequence. Presence of polyoxyethylene-(20)-cetyl-ether (Brij-58) 
in the reaction mixture and subsequently in the immobilized metal-affinity 
purification steps was crucial to keep Bcl-2(2) soluble. The obtained yield was 
0.25-0.3mg per ml of cell-free reaction. Far-UV circular dichroism (CD) 
spectroscopy confirmed the α-helical structure of the purified protein, 
characteristic for members of the Bcl-2 protein family.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.02.003
PMID: 21315822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2015 Jan;112(1):111-9. doi: 10.1002/bit.25323. Epub 2014 Aug 
19.

A kinetic-based approach to understanding heterologous mevalonate pathway 
function in E. coli.

Weaver LJ(1), Sousa MM, Wang G, Baidoo E, Petzold CJ, Keasling JD.

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute, 5885 Hollis Avenue, Emeryville, California, 94608; 
UCB-UCSF Joint Graduate Group in Bioengineering, Berkeley, California, 94720.

To aid in debugging efforts to increase yield, titer, and productivity of 
engineered metabolic pathways, computational models are increasingly needed to 
predict how changes in experimentally manipulable variables such as enzyme 
expression map to changes in pathway flux. Here, an ordinary differential 
equation model is developed for a heterologous mevalonate pathway in E. coli 
using kinetic parameters culled from literature and enzyme concentrations 
derived from Selective Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometry (SRM-MS). To 
identify parameters most important to further experimental investigation, a 
global sensitivity analysis was performed, which pointed to amorphadiene 
synthase activity as the main limiting factor for amorphadiene production. 
Furthermore, the model predicted that in this local enzyme expression regime, 
the overall pathway flux is insensitive to farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP)-mediated 
inhibition of mevalonate kinase, not supporting a hypothesis that had previously 
been posited to be limiting amorphadiene production. To test these predictions 
experimentally, two strains were constructed: (1) a strain containing a 
homologous mevalonate kinase with weaker feedback inhibition, and (2) a strain 
with greater amorphadiene synthase expression. The experimental results validate 
the qualitative model hypotheses and accurately match the predicted 
productivities for the two strains, particularly when an in vivo-derived kcat 
for amorphadiene synthase was substituted for the literature value. These 
results demonstrate the utility of using kinetic representations of engineered 
metabolic pathways parameterized with experimentally derived protein 
concentrations and enzyme kinetic constants to predict productivities and test 
hypotheses about engineering strategies.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25323
PMID: 24981116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Aug;14(4):791-4.

[Construction of recombinant adenovirus vector containing human survivin gene 
and its expression in dendritic cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu XP(1), Chen ZZ, Lin X, Hu JD, Li CT, Yang T, Xu ZS, Lü LL, Chen CP, Zhang 
LH.

Author information:
(1)Fujian Institute of Hematology, Union Hospital, Fujian Medical University, 
Fuzhou 350001, China. xiongpengzhu@163.com

The study was aimed to construct the recombinant adenovirus vectors containing 
human survivin gene, and to investigate their expression in transfected 
dendritic cells. Full length cDNA encoding survivin was obtained by PCR 
amplification from plasmid pcDNA3.0-survivin. The PCR product was restricted, 
and then inserted into pShuttle-CMV. The plasmids of pShuttle-CMV-survivin were 
linearized with PmeI, and the fragment containing survivin was ligated with 
pShuttle-CMV and transfected into E. coli BJ5183. After homologous recombination 
in bacteria, the extracted plasmid from the positive bacteria were linearized 
with PacI, transfected into HEK293 cells with liposome Lipofectamine 2000. Then, 
the harvested adenovirus supernatants were transfected into dendritic cells. The 
results showed that the recombinant adenovirus-survivin was constructed 
successfully and its titer was about 2.65 x 10(9) pfu/ml. The expression of 
survivin in transfected dendritic cells was confirmed by Western blot analysis. 
It is concluded that the recombinant adenovirus vector containing human survivin 
was constructed successfully, which may provide preliminary laboratory evidence 
for anti-leukemia immunotherapy.

PMID: 16928323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. Biotechnol J. 2014 Aug;9(8):1000-12. doi: 10.1002/biot.201400023. Epub 2014 Jun 
3.

Engineering the productivity of recombinant Escherichia coli for limonene 
formation from glycerol in minimal media.

Willrodt C(1), David C, Cornelissen S, Bühler B, Julsing MK, Schmid A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Biotechnology, Department of Biochemical and Chemical 
Engineering, TU Dortmund University, Dortmund, Germany.

The efficiency and productivity of cellular biocatalysts play a key role in the 
industrial synthesis of fine and bulk chemicals. This study focuses on 
optimizing the synthesis of (S)-limonene from glycerol and glucose as carbon 
sources using recombinant Escherichia coli. The cyclic monoterpene limonene is 
extensively used in the fragrance, food, and cosmetic industries. Recently, 
limonene also gained interest as alternative jet fuel of biological origin. Key 
parameters that limit the (S)-limonene yield, related to genetics, physiology, 
and reaction engineering, were identified. The growth-dependent production of 
(S)-limonene was shown for the first time in minimal media. E. coli BL21 (DE3) 
was chosen as the preferred host strain, as it showed low acetate formation, 
fast growth, and high productivity. A two-liquid phase fed-batch fermentation 
with glucose as the sole carbon and energy source resulted in the formation of 
700 mg L(org) (-1) (S)-limonene. Specific activities of 75 mU g(cdw) (-1) were 
reached, but decreased relatively quickly. The use of glycerol as a carbon 
source resulted in a prolonged growth and production phase (specific activities 
of ≥50 mU g(cdw) (-1) ) leading to a final (S)-limonene concentration of 2,700 
mg L(org) (-1) . Although geranyl diphosphate (GPP) synthase had a low 
solubility, its availability appeared not to limit (S)-limonene formation in 
vivo under the conditions investigated. GPP rerouting towards endogenous 
farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) formation also did not limit (S)-limonene production. 
The two-liquid phase fed-batch setup led to the highest monoterpene 
concentration obtained with a recombinant microbial biocatalyst to date.

Copyright © 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201400023
PMID: 24756896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Int J Biol Macromol. 2018 Jul 15;114:776-787. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.03.113. Epub 2018 Mar 23.

Highly stable single-strand-specific 3'-nuclease/nucleotidase from Legionella 
pneumophila.

Trundová M(1), Kovaľ T(2), Owens RJ(3), Fejfarová K(4), Dušková J(5), Kolenko 
P(6), Dohnálek J(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Structure and Function of Biomolecules, Institute of 
Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Biocev, Průmyslová 595, 25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic. Electronic address: maria.trundova@ibt.cas.cz.
(2)Laboratory of Structure and Function of Biomolecules, Institute of 
Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Biocev, Průmyslová 595, 25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic. Electronic address: tomas.koval@ibt.cas.cz.
(3)OPPF-UK, The Research Complex at Harwell, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, 
Oxfordshire, UK. Electronic address: ray@strubi.ox.ac.uk.
(4)Laboratory of Structure and Function of Biomolecules, Institute of 
Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Biocev, Průmyslová 595, 25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic. Electronic address: karla.fejfarova@img.cas.cz.
(5)Laboratory of Structure and Function of Biomolecules, Institute of 
Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Biocev, Průmyslová 595, 25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic. Electronic address: jarmila.duskova@ibt.cas.cz.
(6)Laboratory of Structure and Function of Biomolecules, Institute of 
Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Biocev, Průmyslová 595, 25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic. Electronic address: petr.kolenko@ibt.cas.cz.
(7)Laboratory of Structure and Function of Biomolecules, Institute of 
Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Biocev, Průmyslová 595, 25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic. Electronic address: dohnalek@ibt.cas.cz.

The Gram-negative bacterium Legionella pneumophila is one of the known 
opportunistic human pathogens with a gene coding for a zinc-dependent S1-P1 type 
nuclease. Bacterial zinc-dependent 3'-nucleases/nucleotidases are little 
characterized and not fully understood, including L. pneumophila nuclease 1 
(Lpn1), in contrast to many eukaryotic representatives with in-depth studies 
available. To help explain the principle properties and role of these enzymes in 
intracellular prokaryotic pathogens we have designed and optimized a 
heterologous expression protocol utilizing E. coli together with an efficient 
purification procedure, and performed detailed characterization of the enzyme. 
Replacement of Ni2+ ions by Zn2+ ions in affinity purification proved to be a 
crucial step in the production of pure and stable protein. The production 
protocol provides protein with high yield, purity, stability, and solubility for 
structure-function studies. We show that highly thermostable Lpn1 is active 
mainly towards RNA and ssDNA, with pH optima 7.0 and 6.0, respectively, with low 
activity towards dsDNA; the enzyme features pronounced substrate inhibition. 
Bioinformatic and experimental analysis, together with computer modeling and 
electrostatics calculations point to an unusually high positive charge on the 
enzyme surface under optimal conditions for catalysis. The results help explain 
the catalytic properties of Lpn1 and its substrate inhibition.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.03.113
PMID: 29580999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. AMB Express. 2019 Jan 7;9(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s13568-018-0727-8.

Use of a design of experiments approach to optimise production of a recombinant 
antibody fragment in the periplasm of Escherichia coli: selection of signal 
peptide and optimal growth conditions.

Kasli IM(1)(2), Thomas ORT(1), Overton TW(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.
(2)Institute of Microbiology and Infection, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.
(3)School of Chemical Engineering, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK. t.w.overton@bham.ac.uk.
(4)Institute of Microbiology and Infection, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK. t.w.overton@bham.ac.uk.

Production of recombinant proteins such as antibody fragments in the periplasm 
of the bacterium Escherichia coli has a number of advantages, including the 
ability to form disulphide bonds, aiding correct folding, and the relative ease 
of release and subsequent capture and purification. In this study, we employed 
two N-terminal signal peptides, PelB and DsbA, to direct a recombinant scFv 
antibody (single-chain variable fragment), 13R4, to the periplasm via the Sec 
and SRP pathways respectively. A design of experiments (DoE) approach was used 
to optimise process conditions (temperature, inducer concentration and induction 
point) influencing bacterial physiology and the productivity, solubility and 
location of scFv. The DoE study indicated that titre and subcellular location of 
the scFv depend on the temperature and inducer concentration employed, and also 
revealed the superiority of the PelB signal peptide over the DsbA signal peptide 
in terms of scFv solubility and cell physiology. Baffled shake flasks were 
subsequently used to optimise scFv production at higher biomass concentrations. 
Conditions that minimised stress (low temperature) were shown to be beneficial 
to production of periplasmic scFv. This study highlights the importance of 
signal peptide selection and process optimisation for the production of scFv 
antibodies, and demonstrates the utility of DoE for selection of optimal process 
parameters.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-018-0727-8
PMCID: PMC6323050
PMID: 30617435


1013. Microb Pathog. 2019 Sep;134:103600. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2019.103600. Epub 
2019 Jun 14.

Immunization against Vibrio cholerae, ETEC, and EHEC with chitosan nanoparticle 
containing LSC chimeric protein.

Ghaffari Marandi BH(1), Zolfaghari MR(1), Kazemi R(2), Motamedi MJ(2), Amani 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Basic Science, Qom Branch, Islamic 
Azad University, Qom, Iran.
(2)Green Gene Company, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings 
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic 
address: jafar.amani@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Severe intestinal infections caused by V. cholerae, ETEC and EHEC 
have contributed to the mortality rate in developing countries. Vibrio Cholera, 
ETEC and EHEC bacterium with the production of CT, LT and Stx2 toxins 
respectively lead to severe watery and bloody diarrhea. This study aimed to 
investigate a trimeric vaccine candidate containing recombinant chimeric 
protein, encapsulate the protein in chitosan nanoparticles and assess its 
immunogenicity.
METHODS: The LSC recombinant gene was used. It is composed of LTB (L), STXB (S) 
and CTXB (C) subunits respectively. The LSC recombinant protein was expressed 
and purified and confirmed by western blotting. The purified protein was 
encapsulated in chitosan nanoparticles, and its size was measured. BalB/c mice 
were immunized in four groups through oral and injection methods by LSC protein. 
The antibody titer was then evaluated by ELISA, and finally, the challenge test 
of the toxins from all three bacteria was done on the immunized mouse.
RESULTS: After expression and purification LSC protein size of nanoparticles 
containing protein was measured at 104.6 nm. Nanoparticles were able to induce 
systemic and mucosal immune responses by generating a useful titer of IgG and 
IgA. The challenge results with LT, CT and Stx toxins showed that the LSC 
protein might partially neutralize the effect of toxins.
CONCLUSION: LSC chimeric protein with the simultaneous three essential antigens 
have a protective effect against the toxins produced by ETEC, EHEC and Vibrio 
cholera bacteria and it can be used in vaccines to prevent Diarrhea caused by 
these three bacteria.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2019.103600
PMID: 31202906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 May;35(1):102-10. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.12.015.

Expression and activity of the nucleotide-binding domains of the human ABCA1 
transporter.

Roosbeek S(1), Caster H, Liu QZ, Berne PF, Duverger N, Christiaens B, 
Vandekerckhove J, Peelman F, Labeur C, Rosseneu M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent 
University, Ghent, Belgium. stein.roosbeek@UGent.be

The aim of this study was the expression and production in Escherichia coli of 
the nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) of the human ABCA1 transporter, in a 
soluble, non-denatured form. To increase the protein solubility, and avoid 
expression in E. coli inclusion bodies, we extended the length of the expressed 
NBD domains, to include proximal domains. The corresponding cDNA constructs were 
used to express the N-terminal His-tagged WT and mutant proteins, which were 
purified by Ni(2+)-affinity chromatography. Optimal expression of soluble 
proteins was obtained for constructs including the NBD, the downstream 
80-residue domain, and about 20 upstream residues. The size homogeneity of WT 
and mutant NBDs was determined by Dynamic Light Scattering, and ATP-binding 
constants and ATPase activities were measured. The NBD1 and NBD2 domains bound 
ATP with comparable affinity. The ATPase activity of WT His-NBD1 was about three 
times higher than that of NBD2 and amounted to 5913 compared to 1979 nmol 
Pi/micromol NBD/min for WT His-NBD2. All engineered mutants had comparable 
ATPase activity to the corresponding WT protein. The optimisation of the length 
of the expressed proteins, based upon the boundary prediction of NBDs and 
neighbour domains, enables the expression and purification of soluble ABCA1 
NBDs, with high ATPase activity. This approach should prove useful for the study 
of the structural and functional properties of the NBDs and other domains of the 
ABC transporters.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.12.015
PMID: 15039072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Feb;27(1):5-7.

[Expression of NA of influenza virus and C3d fusion gene in 
replication-defective recombinant adenovirus and its immune efficacy analysis].

[Article in Chinese]

Han F(1), Wang X, Wang Y, Zhao XD, Wu SH.

Author information:
(1)Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a replication-defective recombinant adenovirus 
expressing the fusion gene of neuraminidase (NA) gene in influenza virus 
A/FM/1/47 and C3d and to evaluate the induced immune efficacy.
METHODS: NA-C3d was cloned into shutter vector pAdTrack-CMV, which was 
cotransformated with adenovirus DNA into E. coli BJ5183. The recombinant 
adenovirus genomic DNA was generated through homological recombination. The 
recombinant adenovirus was produced by transfecting 293 cell line with the 
genomic DNA and the induced immune efficacy in mice were analyzed.
RESULTS: The integration of NA-C3d in the adenovirus genomic DNA and its 
expression were confirmed by PCR and Western-Blot assays respectively. After 
intranasal immunization, the serum IgG was induced at a titer of 1: 1000 and 
1:100 000 in BALB/c mice at primary and secondary immunization respectively. The 
vaccinated mice were completely survived when challenged with wide influenza 
virus.
CONCLUSION: recombinant adenovirus expressing NA-C3d was successfully 
constructed and it could induce desired immune efficacy.

PMID: 23855117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2011 Dec;30(6):525-30. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2011.0065.

Expression of the PreS1 peptide of hepatitis B virus and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibody.

Chen W(1), Zhang J, Zhang J, Wang D, Li Y, Huang A.

Author information:
(1)The Clinical Laboratory Center of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, China. ache11@163.com

PreS1 is a hypothetical candidate domain of L protein for hepatitis B virus 
(HBV) to adhere to and invade host hepatic cells. This report deals with the 
expression and purification of recombinant adw2 subtype of the preS1 peptide of 
hepatitis B virus surface antigen in Escherichia coli. The DNA fragments of the 
full-length or N/C terminal sequence of preS1 synthesized by PCR were inserted 
into the prokaryotic expression vector pGST-MOLUC, respectively. Reconstitute 
plasmids (named pGST-preS1, pGST-preS1N, and pGST-preS1C) were confirmed by 
sequencing analysis and transferred into Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). Recombinant 
full-length and N/C terminal of preS1 with GST tag were expressed at high levels 
in soluble form after induction with IPTG. The recombinant proteins were 
purified by a single-step affinity chromatography method. The immune reactivity 
of recombinant preS1 was confirmed by Western blot and virus capture assay. 
Furthermore, when the purified recombinant protein was used to immunize rabbit, 
the specific antibody titer can reach 10(-7). Thus, our successful expression 
system and achievement of purified recombinant preS1 protein and its polyclonal 
antibody lay the foundation for better understanding of the mechanism of HBV 
PreS1 protein in virus endocytosis and are helpful in seeking the PreS1-related 
protein.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2011.0065
PMID: 22149277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Dec;97(24):10423-33. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-013-5236-8. Epub 2013 Sep 27.

Effect of temperature and sorbitol in improving the solubility of 
carboxylesterases protein CpCE-1 from Cydia pomonella and biochemical 
characterization.

Yang X(1), Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Protection Resources and Pest Management of Ministry 
of Education, College of Plant Protection, Northwest A & F University, Yangling, 
712100, Shaanxi, Peoples's Republic of China.

Erratum in
    Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Dec;97(24):10585.

Carboxylesterases (CEs) are enzymes responsible for the detoxification of 
insecticides in insects. In the Cydia pomonella, CEs are involved in synthetic 
pyrethroid, neonicotinoid, carbamate, and organophosphate detoxification. 
However, functional overexpression of CEs proteins in Escherichia coli systems 
often results in insoluble proteins. In this study, we expressed the fusion 
protein CpCE-1 in E. coli BL21 (DE3). This recombinant protein was overexpressed 
as inclusion bodies at 37 °C whereas it produced a higher percentage of soluble 
protein at lower growth temperatures. Production of soluble proteins and enzyme 
activity increased in the presence of sorbitol in the growth medium. The fusion 
protein was purified from the lysate supernatant using a Ni(2+)-NTA agarose gel 
column. The enzyme exhibited a higher affinity and substrate specificity for 
α-naphthyl acetate (α-NA), with k cat/K m of 100 s(-1) μM(-1) for α-NA, and the 
value is 29.78 s(-1) μM(-1) for β-naphthyl acetate. The V max and K m were also 
determined to be 12.9 μmol/min/mg protein and 13.4 μM using substrate α-NA. The 
optimum pH was 7.0 and temperature was 25 °C. An enzyme inhibition assay shows 
that PMSF and DEPC strongly inhibit the enzyme activity, while the metal ions 
Cu(2+) and Mg(2+) significantly activated the activity. More importantly, 
cypermethrin, methomyl, and acephate were found to suppress enzyme activity. The 
data demonstrated here provide information for heterologous expression of 
soluble protein and further study on insecticide metabolism in C. pomonella in 
vitro. This is the first report of the characterization of CEs protein from C. 
pomonella.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-013-5236-8
PMID: 24072161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;24(3):161-4.

[Expression and function analysis of dengue virus type 1 to 4 envelope domain 
III recombinant fusion protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Niu GY(1), Lu P, Zhang S, Zhang QF, Li C, Liang MF, Xu F, Li DX.

Author information:
(1)Medical University, Ningxia 750003, China.

OBJECTIVE: To observe the ability of dengue virus type 1-4 envelope domain III 
fusion protein to inhibit virus infection and analyze the neutralizing ability 
of polyclonal antibodies against rE III.
METHODS: After being connected by linker peptide, E III protein of Dengue virus 
serotypes 1-4 were expressed in E coli BL21 (DE3) then purified. Fusion proteins 
were verified by Western Blot and ELISA. Rabbits were immunized with fusion 
proteins to produce anti-rE III serum. The activity of anti-rE III serum were 
detected through indirect immunofluorescence assay test. Inhibition of dengue 
virus type 1 to 4 infection in BHK-21 cells by rE III fusion protein were 
tested. Neutralizing activity of anti-rE III serum was analyzed.
RESULTS: Dengue virus type 1 to 4 envelope domain III recombinant fusion protein 
was expressed in E coli BL21 and purified successfully. Then rE III fusion 
protein and anti-rE III serum were analyzed respectively and rE III fusion 
protein can effectively inhibit dengue virus type 1 to 4 from infecting BHK 
cells. The anti-rE III serums can neutralize dengue virus type 1 to 4 but with 
different neutralizing titer.
CONCLUSION: Dengue virus type 1-4 envelope domain III fusion protein can 
directly inhibit DV infection. Antibodies induced by rE III fusion proteins can 
neutralize dengue virus type 1-4.

PMID: 21186514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Microb Cell Fact. 2013 Nov 19;12:115. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-115.

Optimizing Escherichia coli as a protein expression platform to produce 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis immunogenic proteins.

Piubelli L(1), Campa M, Temporini C, Binda E, Mangione F, Amicosante M, Terreni 
M, Marinelli F, Pollegioni L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences, University of Insubria, 
Varese, Italy. flavia.marinelli@uninsubria.it.

BACKGROUND: A number of valuable candidates as tuberculosis vaccine have been 
reported, some of which have already entered clinical trials. The new vaccines, 
especially subunit vaccines, need multiple administrations in order to maintain 
adequate life-long immune memory: this demands for high production levels and 
degree of purity.
RESULTS: In this study, TB10.4, Ag85B and a TB10.4-Ag85B chimeric protein 
(here-after referred as full)--immunodominant antigens of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis--were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. 
The rational design of expression constructs and optimization of fermentation 
and purification conditions allowed a marked increase in solubility and yield of 
the recombinant antigens. Indeed, scaling up of the process guaranteed mass 
production of all these three antigens (2.5-25 mg of pure protein/L cultivation 
broth). Quality of produced soluble proteins was evaluated both by mass 
spectrometry to assess the purity of final preparations, and by circular 
dichroism spectroscopy to ascertain the protein conformation. Immunological 
tests of the different protein products demonstrated that when TB10.4 was fused 
to Ag85B, the chimeric protein was more immunoreactive than either of the 
immunogenic protein alone.
CONCLUSIONS: We reached the goal of purifying large quantities of soluble 
antigens effective in generating immunological response against M. tuberculosis 
by a robust, controlled, scalable and economically feasible production process.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-115
PMCID: PMC4225511
PMID: 24252280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Dec;128:60-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.08.007. Epub 2016 
Aug 12.

Development of CYB5-fusion monitoring system for efficient periplasmic 
expression of multimeric proteins in Escherichia coli.

Dormeshkin D(1), Gilep A(2), Sergeev G(1), Usanov S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, 
Kuprevicha 5/2, Minsk, 220141, Belarus.
(2)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, 
Kuprevicha 5/2, Minsk, 220141, Belarus. Electronic address: 
agilep@iboch.bas-net.by.

Despite all advances of heterologous expression of recombinant proteins in 
Escherichia coli, expression of multidomain disulphide-rich proteins faces some 
problems due to the absence of the possibility to monitor the process in 
real-time. Here we provide a CYB5-fusion system - cytochrome b5 fusion system 
for periplasmic expression of multimeric proteins with the possibility of 
process monitoring. We validated this system by Fab and scFv antibody fragments 
expression in order to improve antibody-derived molecules characterization and 
to simplify their usage. The combination of redox dependent absorbance spectrum 
of red-colored cytochrome b5 with its high value molar extinction coefficient 
allows us to monitor antibody fusion proteins localization, redox state and 
quantify them in reliable way in turbid solutions. Moreover, it was revealed 
that due to outstanding stability and solubility, cytochrome b5 significantly 
enhances expression level of Fab/scFv antibody fragments in Escherichia coli 
periplasm.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.08.007
PMID: 27524697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Int J Mol Sci. 2019 Mar 13;20(6):1269. doi: 10.3390/ijms20061269.

Production and Characterization of Recombinant Wild Type Uricase from Indonesian 
Coelacanth (L. menadoensis) and Improvement of Its Thermostability by In Silico 
Rational Design and Disulphide Bridges Engineering.

Yainoy S(1), Phuadraksa T(2), Wichit S(3), Sompoppokakul M(4), Songtawee N(5), 
Prachayasittikul V(6), Isarankura-Na-Ayudhya C(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. 
sakda.yai@mahidol.ac.th.
(2)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. 
thanawat.phd@student.mahidol.ac.th.
(3)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. 
sineewanlaya.wic@mahidol.ac.th.
(4)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. 
maprangsompoppokakul@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. napat.son@mahidol.ac.th.
(6)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. 
virapong.pra@mahidol.ac.th.
(7)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of 
Medical Technology, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. 
chartchalerm.isa@mahidol.ac.th.

The ideal therapeutic uricase (UOX) is expected to have the following 
properties; high expression level, high activity, high thermostability, high 
solubility and low immunogenicity. The latter property is believed to depend 
largely on sequence identity to the deduced human UOX (dH-UOX). Herein, we 
explored L. menadoensis uricase (LM-UOX) and found that it has 65% sequence 
identity to dH-UOX, 68% to the therapeutic chimeric porcine-baboon UOX (PBC) and 
70% to the resurrected ancient mammal UOX. To study its biochemical properties, 
recombinant LM-UOX was produced in E. coli and purified to more than 95% 
homogeneity. The enzyme had specific activity up to 10.45 unit/mg, which was 
about 2-fold higher than that of the PBC. One-litre culture yielded purified 
protein up to 132 mg. Based on homology modelling, we successfully engineered 
I27C/N289C mutant, which was proven to contain inter-subunit disulphide bridges. 
The mutant had similar specific activity and production yield to that of wild 
type (WT) but its thermostability was dramatically improved. Up on storage at 
-20 °C and 4 °C, the mutant retained ~100% activity for at least 60 days. By 
keeping at 37 °C, the mutant retained ~100% activity for 15 days, which was 
120-fold longer than that of the wild type. Thus, the I27C/N289C mutant has 
potential to be developed for treatment of hyperuricemia.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms20061269
PMCID: PMC6471336
PMID: 30871218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


1022. Microorganisms. 2019 Jan 8;7(1):8. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms7010008.

Expression and Purification of Chemokine MIP-3α (CCL20) through a 
Calmodulin-Fusion Protein System.

Ramamourthy G(1), Arias M(2), Nguyen LT(3), Ishida H(4), Vogel HJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Research Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada. rgopal@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Biochemistry Research Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada. ariasm@ucalgary.ca.
(3)Biochemistry Research Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada. lltnguye@ucalgary.ca.
(4)Biochemistry Research Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada. hishida@ucalgary.ca.
(5)Biochemistry Research Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada. vogel@ucalgary.ca.

Human macrophage inflammatory protein 3α (MIP-3α), also known as CCL20, is a 70 
amino acid chemokine that selectively binds and activates chemokine receptor 6 
(CCR6). This chemokine is responsible for inducing the migration of immature 
dendritic cells, effector, or memory T-cells, and B-cells. Moreover, the MIP-3α 
protein has been shown to display direct antimicrobial, antiviral and 
antiprotozoal activities. Because of the potential therapeutic uses of this 
protein, the efficient production of MIP-3α is of great interest. However, 
bacterial recombinant production of the MIP-3α protein has been limited by the 
toxicity of this extremely basic protein (pI 9.7) toward prokaryotic cells, and 
by solubility problems during expression and purification. In an attempt to 
overcome these issues, we have investigated the bacterial recombinant expression 
of MIP-3α by using several common expression and fusion tags, including 6× 
histidine (His), small ubiquitin modifier protein (SUMO), thioredoxin (TRX), 
ketosteroid isomerase (KSI), and maltose binding protein (MBP). We have also 
evaluated a recently introduced calmodulin (CaM)-tag that has been used for the 
effective expression of many basic antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). Here, we show 
that the CaM fusion tag system effectively expressed soluble MIP-3α in the 
cytoplasm of Escherichia coli with good yields. Rapid purification was 
facilitated by the His-tag that was integrated in the CaM-fusion protein system. 
Multidimensional nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies demonstrated that the 
recombinant protein was properly folded, with the correct formation of disulfide 
bonds. In addition, the recombinant MIP-3α had antibacterial activity, and was 
shown to inhibit the formation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms7010008
PMCID: PMC6352211
PMID: 30626048

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1023. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Aug;60(2):214-20. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.04.005. Epub 
2008 Apr 26.

High-yield expression and purification of soluble forms of the anti-apoptotic 
Bcl-x(L) and Bcl-2 as TolAIII-fusion proteins.

Nedelkina S(1), Gokce I, Ridley H, Weckerle C, Magnin T, Vallette F, Pattus F, 
Lakey JH, Bechinger B.

Author information:
(1)Université Louis Pasteur/CNRS LC3-UMR 7177, Institut de Chimie Strasbourg, 
Faculté de Chimie, Institut le Bel, 4 rue Blaise Pascal, F-67070 Strasbourg, 
France.

A method is presented to produce large amounts of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L), two 
anti-apoptotic proteins of considerable biomedical interest. Expression 
constructs were prepared in which the Escherichia coli protein TolAIII, known to 
promote over expression of soluble product, was added to the N-terminus of Bcl-2 
or Bcl-x(L) proteins, which had their C-terminal hydrophobic anchors deleted. 
Here the expression of these TolAIII-fusion constructs, followed by a two-step 
metal-affinity based purification protocol is described. The method delivers at 
least 20 and 10mg of more than 90% pure TolAIII-Bcl-x(L)DeltaC and 
TolAIII-Bcl-2(2)DeltaC proteins, respectively, per liter of E. coli cell 
culture. The proteins are released by proteolysis with thrombin providing > 12 
mg of Bcl-x(L)DeltaC or > 6 mg of Bcl-2(2)DeltaC per liter of E. coli cell 
culture with a purity of more than 95%. Whereas Bcl-x(L)DeltaC is soluble both 
before and after TolAIII removal, Triton X-100 can significantly increase the 
extraction of TolAIII- Bcl-2(2)DeltaC from the bacterial cells and its 
subsequent solubility. Far-UV CD spectroscopy demonstrated that they both have 
an alpha-helical structure. Fluorescence spectroscopy was used to quantitatively 
analyze the binding of the respiratory inhibitor antimycin A to recombinant 
Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) proteins as well as the displacement of this ligand from the 
hydrophobic pocket with BH3 Bad-derived peptide. Purified Bcl-x(L)DeltaC and 
Bcl-2(2)DeltaC both protect isolated mitochondria from Bax-induced release of 
cytochrome c. The ensemble of data shows that the expressed proteins are 
correctly folded and functional. Therefore, the TolAIII-fusion system provides a 
convenient tool for functional characterization and structural studies of 
anti-apoptotic proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.04.005
PMID: 18522870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2012 Mar 4;52(3):311-7.

[Construction of cDNA library of Aspergillus niger H1 and screening of 
phosphate-dissolving related gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang C(1), Gong M, Li S, Zhu C.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Key Laboratory for 
Microbiological Engineering of Agricultural Environment, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Nanjing 210095, China. tangchaoxi240@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To obtain phosphate-dissolving genes from cDNA library of Aspergillus 
niger H1.
METHODS: The double-stranded cDNA was synthesized using switching mechanism at 
5'end of RNA transcript technique and ligated to the vector pBluescript II SK 
(+). We transformed recombinant plasmid into E. coli HST08, resulting in a 
primary cDNA library. We screened clones with phosphate-dissolving activities on 
the insoluble phosphate medium and blasted the sequence in National Center for 
Biotechnology Information (NCBI). To study the phosphate dissolving mechanisms 
of the cloned gene, we analyzed the changes of the pH value, the soluble 
phosphate content and the production of organic acids in the insoluble phosphate 
liquid medium inoculated with the clones harboring the phosphate-dissolving 
gene.
RESULTS: A cDNA library of A. niger H1 was successfully constructed. Titer tests 
showed that the content of constructed A. niger H1 cDNA library reached 5.65 x 
10(6) cfu/mL, in which the percentage of recombinant clones was 99.15%. We 
screened 61 clones with phosphate-dissolving activities on the solid medium with 
insoluble phosphate. The corresponding gene in one of these clones was 
identified. The full length cDNA of clone H-54 was 839 bp, encoding a predicted 
protein with 180 amino acid residues. The expression of phosphate-dissolving 
gene in E. coli enhanced organic acids secretion and improved the phosphate 
solubilizing activity. Formic acid and acetic acid were found in 12 h, and malic 
acid and alpha-ketoglutarate were secreted in 24 h. The clone H-54 decreased the 
pH value of medium from 6.32 to 3.93 and released soluble phosphate up to 0.105 
mg/mL in 36 h.
CONCLUSION: We had obtained a phosphate-dissolving gene designated psgA from 
Aspergillus niger H1.

PMID: 22712401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. Bioengineered. 2017 Jul 4;8(4):428-432. doi: 10.1080/21655979.2016.1249074. Epub 
2016 Nov 28.

Optimizing the expression of a Heterologous chitinase: A study of different 
promoters.

da Silva AF(1), García-Fraga B(1), López-Seijas J(1), Sieiro C(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Functional Biology and Health Sciences , Microbiology Area, 
University of Vigo, Lagoas - Marcosende , Vigo , Spain.

Erratum for
    Addendum to: García-Fraga B, da Silva AF, López-Seijas J, Sieiro C. 
Optimized expression conditions for enhancing production of 2 recombinant 
chitinolytic enzymes from different prokaryote domains. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng 
2015; 38:2477-86. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00449-015-1485-5.

Many relevant applications have been demonstrated for chitinolytic enzymes. 
However, their successful exploitation depends upon the availability of strains 
and expression conditions that allow the production of active forms and large 
quantities of these enzymes. Escherichia coli has been commonly used to express 
and overproduce different proteins, among them chitinases. Improving the 
functional gene expression of chitinases is key to exploiting their potential. 
In a recent study, we described the effect of various parameters on the 
functional expression of 2 chitinases from different families, demonstrating 
that the effect of each of these parameters on the activity of both chitinases 
was specific to each enzyme. In this study, the expression of a Lactococcus 
lactis chitinase encoded by a new allele, ChiA1-2, was optimized. The results 
showed that not only the expression parameters seemed to influence protein 
production, solubility and activity but also the plasmid used for the 
expression. Herein, we describe the effect of 2 different promoters, tac and T7, 
on the expression of the active form of the chitinolytic enzyme.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2016.1249074
PMCID: PMC5553332
PMID: 27893301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Protein Pept Lett. 2012 May;19(5):479-84. doi: 10.2174/092986612800190973.

Production of recombinant oxytocin through sulfitolysis of inteincontaining 
fusion protein.

Esipov RS(1), Stepanenko VN, Chupova LA, Miroshnikov AI.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic 
Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, ul. Miklukho-Maklaya 16/10, Moscow, 
117997 Russia. esipov@ibch.ru

An artificial gene consisting of seven copies of an oxytocinoyl-lysine encoding 
sequence arranged in a tandem was synthesized and inserted downstream of the 
SspDnaB intein gene in a pTWIN1 plasmid. The corresponding fusion protein 
Dnab-7oxy contained 16 cysteine residues and formed inclusion bodies when 
expressed in E. coli. The standard protocol involving solubilization of the 
fusion protein and its autocatalytic cleavage on a chitin resin was not 
effective because of a very low yield of the cleavage reaction. Attempts to 
perform a refolding of the intein part of the fusion protein in solution were 
also unsuccessful because of a high level of protein aggregation. Sulfitolysis 
of cysteine residues is known to increase a solubility of proteins and peptides. 
Therefore we suggested a one-step approach that combines solubilization of 
inclusion bodies and sulfitolysis of a hybrid protein. The fusion protein was 
completely reduced and solubilized in 8M urea at pH 9.0 in the presence of 
sodium sulfite and sodium tetrathionate. The sulfitized protein was loaded onto 
a chitin column, an efficient cleavage was induced by a pH shift from 9.0 to 
6.5, and seven successively connected oxytocinoyl- lysine units were released. 
The heptamer was subjected to trypsinolysis yielding sulfitized monomers of 
oxytocinoyllysine. Oxytocinoyl-lysine was refolded as described previously and 
treated by carboxypeptidase B to form the oxytocinic acid. The target oxytocin 
amide was then synthesized via methyl ester intermediate. Using this approach 6 
mg of recombinant oxytocin can be obtained from 1 g of biomass.

DOI: 10.2174/092986612800190973
PMID: 22316308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Dec;104:57-64. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.09.006. Epub 
2014 Sep 18.

Overexpression of Pseudomonas aeruginosa LpxC with its inhibitors in an 
acrB-deficient Escherichia coli strain.

Gao N(1), McLeod SM(2), Hajec L(2), Olivier NB(3), Lahiri SD(2), Bryan Prince 
D(3), Thresher J(2), Ross PL(3), Whiteaker JD(2), Doig P(3), Li AH(4), Hill 
PJ(4), Cornebise M(4), Reck F(4), Hale MR(4).

Author information:
(1)Discovery Sciences, Infection Innovative Medicine Unit, AstraZeneca R&D 
Boston, 35 Gatehouse Drive, Waltham, MA 02451, USA. Electronic address: 
ning.gao@astrazeneca.com.
(2)Department of Bioscience, Infection Innovative Medicine Unit, AstraZeneca R&D 
Boston, 35 Gatehouse Drive, Waltham, MA 02451, USA.
(3)Discovery Sciences, Infection Innovative Medicine Unit, AstraZeneca R&D 
Boston, 35 Gatehouse Drive, Waltham, MA 02451, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Infection Innovative Medicine Unit, AstraZeneca R&D 
Boston, 35 Gatehouse Drive, Waltham, MA 02451, USA.

In Gram-negative bacteria, the cell wall is surrounded by an outer membrane, the 
outer leaflet of which is comprised of charged lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 
molecules. Lipid A, a component of LPS, anchors this molecule to the outer 
membrane. UDP-3-O-(R-3-hydroxymyristoyl)-N-acetylglucosamine deacetylase (LpxC) 
is a zinc-dependent metalloamidase that catalyzes the first committed step of 
biosynthesis of Lipid A, making it a promising target for antibiotic therapy. 
Formation of soluble aggregates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa LpxC protein when 
overexpressed in Escherichia coli has limited the availability of high quality 
protein for X-ray crystallography. Expression of LpxC in the presence of an 
inhibitor dramatically increased protein solubility, shortened crystallization 
time and led to a high-resolution crystal structure of LpxC bound to the 
inhibitor. However, this approach required large amounts of compound, 
restricting its use. To reduce the amount of compound needed, an overexpression 
strain of E. coli was created lacking acrB, a critical component of the major 
efflux pump. By overexpressing LpxC in the efflux deficient strain in the 
presence of LpxC inhibitors, several structures of P. aeruginosa LpxC in complex 
with different compounds were solved to accelerate structure-based drug design.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.09.006
PMID: 25240855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Oct;18(10):1634-40.

Screening of promoters from metagenomic DNA and their use for the construction 
of expression vectors.

Han SS(1), Lee JY, Kim WH, Shin HJ, Kim GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Chonnam 
National University, Gwangju 500-757, Korea.

This study was focused on the screening of valuable genetic resources, such as 
promoters from metagenome, and describes a promoter trapping system with a 
bidirectional probe concept, which can select promoters or operons from various 
biological resources including metagenomic DNA. A pair of reporters, GFP and 
DsRed, facing the opposite direction without promoters, is an effective system 
that can function regardless of the direction of inserted promoters. The 
feasibility of this system was tested for the isolation of constitutively 
expressed promoters in E. coli from a soil metagenome, resulting in a potential 
pool of various promoters for practical application. The analyses of structural 
organization of the trapped genes demonstrated that constitutively expressible 
promoters in E. coli were broadly distributed within the metagenome, and 
suggested that some promoters were useful for the construction of expression 
vectors. Based on these observations, three constitutive promoters were employed 
in the expression vector system and their potentials for practical application 
were evaluated in terms of expression level, protein solubility, and effects on 
host growth.

PMID: 18955811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 May 20;68(20):5668-5675. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01064. 
Epub 2020 May 6.

Combinatorial Modular Pathway Engineering for Guanosine 5'-Diphosphate-l-fucose 
Production in Recombinant Escherichia coli.

Wan L(1), Zhu Y(1), Li W(1), Zhang W(1), Mu W(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(2)International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 
214122, China.

Guanosine 5'-diphosphate (GDP)-l-fucose is an important nucleotide sugar 
involved in the synthesis of fucosylated oligosaccharides, such as fucosylated 
human milk oligosaccharides, which play important roles in physiological and 
pathological processes. Here, a combinatorial modular pathway engineering 
strategy was implemented to efficiently increase the intracellular titers of 
GDP-l-fucose in engineered Escherichia coli. The de novo GDP-l-fucose synthesis 
pathway was partitioned into two modules and fine-tuned at both transcriptional 
and translational levels, which remarkably improved the GDP-l-fucose production. 
In addition, the gene encoding the UDP-glucose lipid carrier transferase (WcaJ) 
was inactivated to eliminate the competing metabolite pathway from GDP-l-fucose 
to colanic acid. Furthermore, cofactors were regenerated to promote 
biocatalysis. Taken together, the final engineered strain EWL37, which could 
achieve a titer of 18.33 mg/L in shake-flask cultivation, showed 106.21 mg/L 
intracellular GDP-l-fucose accumulation and a DCW-specific GDP-l-fucose content 
of 4.28 mg/g through fed-batch cultivation. In general, this study demonstrated 
that the utilization of combinatorial modular pathway engineering significantly 
improved the de novo synthesis of GDP-l-fucose in engineered E. coli.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01064
PMID: 32336091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Oct;32(10):1407-1411.

[Prokaryotic expression and antiserum preparation for major antigenic epitope 
region of major capsid protein of Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus) 
iridovirus].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou X(1), Zhang X(2), Jia Q(1), Han Y(1), Gao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Aquaculture and Fishery Engineering Laboratory, Yellow River Fisheries 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, Xi'an 710086, China.
(2)Aquaculture and Fishery Engineering Laboratory, Yellow River Fisheries 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, Xi'an 710086, 
China.*Corresponding author, E-mail: zxlang029@sina.com.

Objective To express the fusion protein of major antigenic epitope region of 
major capsid protein (MCP) of Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus) 
iridovirus (CGSIV) and prepare the rabbit antiserum. Methods Using the genomic 
DNA of CGSIV Lueyang strain (CGSIV-LY) as a template, the gene fragment of major 
antigenic epitope region of MCP was amplified by PCR and cloned into the 
prokaryotic vector pET-21a(+) to construct the prokaryotic expression 
recombinant plasmid pET-21a-MCP. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into 
Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). His-tagged fusion protein was induced by IPTG. After 
identified by SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis, the recombinant protein was 
purified by nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) agarose resin. New Zealand rabbits 
were immunized with the purified recombinant protein to generate antiserum. 
Specificity and titer of the antiserum were determined by Western blotting and 
indirect ELISA, and then the antiserum was used to detect the CGSIV in the 
infected EPC cells by indirect immunofluorescence assay. Results The recombinant 
protein with the relative molecular mass of 29 000 was expressed. The prepared 
rabbit antiserum had a good specificity and a high titer. Indirect 
immunofluorescence assay showed that the antiserum could recognize CGSIV in the 
infected EPC cells. Conclusion The fusion protein of major antigenic epitope 
region of MCP of CGSIV is successfully expressed and the rabbit antiserum with a 
high titer and a good specificity been prepared.

PMID: 27667470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2021 Jun;37(6):551-556.

[Preparation and identification of rat anti-human ErbB3 dimerization domain 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu L(1), Wang X(2), Yuan P(3), Wang G(4).

Author information:
(1)Anhui Provincial Engineering Research Center for Polysaccharide Drugs, 
Research Institute for Pharmaceutical Screening & Evaluation, Drug Research & 
Development Center, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Active Biological 
Macromolecules, School of Pharmacy, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 241002, China.
(2)Anhui Provincial Engineering Research Center for Polysaccharide Drugs, Drug 
Research & Development Center, School of Pharmacy, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
241002, China.
(3)Anhui Provincial Engineering Research Center for Polysaccharide Drugs, Drug 
Research & Development Center, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Active 
Biological Macromolecules, School of Pharmacy, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
241002, China.
(4)Anhui Provincial Engineering Research Center for Polysaccharide Drugs, Drug 
Research & Development Center, Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Active 
Biological Macromolecules, School of Pharmacy, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
241002, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: guodong201@csu.edu.cn.

Objective To prepare the fusion protein MVF-ErbB3II composed of measles virus 
fusion (MVF) protein 288 to 302 amino acid peptide and human epidermal growth 
factor receptor 3 (ErbB3) 236 to 308 amino acid (ErbB3II) peptide, then prepare 
and characterize the anti-MVF-ErbB3II polyclonal antibody (pcAb). Methods The 
MVF-ErbB3II gene was synthesized artificially and subcloned into pET-21b plasmid 
using DNA ligase. After transformation, the recombinant MVF-ErbB3II protein was 
expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and purified using nickel ion affinity 
chromatography. Subsequently, the purified MVF-ErbB3II protein was used as 
antigen to immunize rats subcutaneously for induction of anti-MVF-ErbB3IIpcAb. 
The titer of anti-MVF-ErbB3II pcAb was analyzed by ELISA. The ErbB3 specificity 
and targeting ability of pcAb were evaluated by Western blotting, 
immunoprecipitation (IP) and flow cytometry (FCM). Results SDS-PAGE confirmed 
that MVF-ErbB3II protein was successfully expressed and purified. ELISA showed 
that the titer of pcAb was 1 024 000. Western blotting, IP and FCM assays showed 
that the anti-MVF-ErbB3II pcAb not only had good antigen specificity against 
purified MVF-ErbB3II and native ErbB3 but targeted the ErbB3 dimerization 
interface. Conclusion The prokaryotic expression and purification of MVF-ErbB3II 
is successfully achieved, rat anti-MVF-ErbB3II pcAb is prepared and 
characterized successfully.

PMID: 34060450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. J Biotechnol. 2021 Jan 10;325:207-216. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.10.022. Epub 
2020 Oct 26.

An NADH preferring acetoacetyl-CoA reductase is engaged in 
poly-3-hydroxybutyrate accumulation in Escherichia coli.

Olavarria K(1), Carnet A(2), van Renselaar J(3), Quakkelaar C(4), Cabrera R(5), 
Guedes da Silva L(6), Smids AL(7), Villalobos PA(8), van Loosdrecht MCM(9), Wahl 
SA(10).

Author information:
(1)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: kogamez@gmail.com.
(2)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: carnetalexandre@gmail.com.
(3)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: joachimvrens@gmail.com.
(4)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: casparquakkelaar@hotmail.com.
(5)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile, Las 
Palmeras 3425, Ñuñoa, Región Metropolitana, Chile. Electronic address: 
ricabrer@uchile.cl.
(6)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: leonorsilva28@gmail.com.
(7)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: aronragtag@msn.com.
(8)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile, Las 
Palmeras 3425, Ñuñoa, Región Metropolitana, Chile. Electronic address: 
pavillalobos@u.uchile.cl.
(9)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: M.C.M.vanLoosdrecht@tudelft.nl.
(10)Departement Biotechnologie, Faculteit Technische Natuurwetenschappen, 
Technische Universiteit Delft, Van der Maasweg 9, 2629 HZ, Netherlands. 
Electronic address: S.A.Wahl@tudelft.nl.

Oxygen supply implies higher production cost and reduction of maximum 
theoretical yields. Thus, generation of fermentation products is more 
cost-effective. Aiming to find a key piece for the production of 
(poly)-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) as a fermentation product, here we characterize 
an acetoacetyl-CoA reductase, isolated from a Candidatus Accumulibacter 
phosphatis-enriched mixed culture, showing a 
(kcatNADH/KMNADH)/(kcatNADPH/KMNADPH)>500. Further kinetic analyses indicate 
that, at physiological concentrations, this enzyme clearly prefers NADH, 
presenting the strongest NADH preference so far observed among the 
acetoacetyl-CoA reductases. Structural and kinetic analyses indicate that 
residues between E37 and P41 have an important role for the observed NADH 
preference. Moreover, an operon was assembled combining the phaCA genes from 
Cupriavidus necator and the gene encoding for this NADH-preferring 
acetoacetyl-CoA reductase. Escherichia coli cells expressing that assembled 
operon showed continuous accumulation of PHB under oxygen limiting conditions 
and PHB titer increased when decreasing the specific oxygen consumption rate. 
Taken together, these results show that it is possible to generate PHB as a 
fermentation product in E. coli, opening opportunities for further 
protein/metabolic engineering strategies envisioning a more efficient anaerobic 
production of PHB.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.10.022
PMID: 33122026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2018 Jul;78:35-41. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2018.04.024. Epub 
2018 Apr 14.

Efficacy of recombinant protein vaccines for protection against Nocardia 
seriolae infection in the largemouth bass Micropterus salmoides.

Ho PY(1), Chen YC(1), Maekawa S(1), Hu HH(2), Tsai AW(2), Chang YF(3), Wang 
PC(4), Chen SC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, National 
Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1 Shuefu Road, Neipu, 
Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Graduate Institute of Animal Vaccine Technology, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1 Shuefu 
Road, Neipu, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)Department of Population Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences, College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, 14853, New York, United States.
(4)Department of Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, National 
Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1 Shuefu Road, Neipu, 
Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: pc921003@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, National 
Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1 Shuefu Road, Neipu, 
Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC; Research Center for Animal Biologics, National 
Pingtung University of Science and Technology, No. 1 Shuefu Road, Neipu, 
Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: scchen@mail.npust.edu.tw.

A reverse vaccinology-based survey of potent antigens associated with fish 
nocardiosis was conducted using the largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides, with 
an aim to develop subunit vaccines. The antigens selected from the virulent 
strain Nocardia seriolae 961113 include the gene products of NGL2579 (GAPDH), 
NGL5701 (MMP), NGL4377 (OCTase), NGL4486 (ABC transporter), NGL3372 (LLE), 
NGL3388 (GHf10), NGL6627 (Antigen-85), NGL6696 (Esterase), and NGL6936 (CBP). 
These antigens were heterologously expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) for 
recombinant protein production. Then fish were vaccinated was these antigens, 
boosted at 2 weeks, and challenged with N. seriolae at 6 weeks after 
vaccination. The relative protection survival assay revealed high and 
significant protection efficacies of 94.45, 50.00, and 44.45 in fish that 
received the NGL3388 (GHf10), NGL6936 (CBP), and NGL3372 (LLE) vaccines, 
respectively. There were no apparent relationships or differences in tissue 
lesions among the administered vaccines. The serum titers against the bacterial 
preparations were higher for all vaccinated groups than for the control group at 
4 weeks after immunization. However, no significant difference in serum titer 
was found at 6 weeks after immunization. The results of this study demonstrate 
that subunit vaccines against fish nocardiosis have differential effects, but 
are highly promising for nocardial prophylaxis.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2018.04.024
PMID: 29665404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 25;11(1):e0146552. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146552. 
eCollection 2016.

Rational Design of a Carrier Protein for the Production of Recombinant Toxic 
Peptides in Escherichia coli.

Pane K(1), Durante L(1), Pizzo E(1), Varcamonti M(1), Zanfardino A(1), Sgambati 
V(1), Di Maro A(2), Carpentieri A(3), Izzo V(4), Di Donato A(1), Cafaro V(1), 
Notomista E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico II, Napoli, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Environmental, Biological and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies, Seconda Università di Napoli, Caserta, Italy.
(3)Department of Chemical Sciences, Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico 
II, Napoli, Italy.
(4)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Università degli Studi di Salerno, 
Baronissi, Italy.

Commercial uses of bioactive peptides require low cost, effective methods for 
their production. We developed a new carrier protein for high yield production 
of recombinant peptides in Escherichia coli very well suited for the production 
of toxic peptides like antimicrobial peptides. GKY20, a short antimicrobial 
peptide derived from the C-terminus of human thrombin, was fused to the 
C-terminus of Onconase, a small ribonuclease (104 amino acids), which 
efficiently drove the peptide into inclusion bodies with very high expression 
levels (about 200-250 mg/L). After purification of the fusion protein by 
immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography, peptide was obtained by chemical 
cleavage in diluted acetic acid of an acid labile Asp-Pro sequence with more 
than 95% efficiency. To improve peptide purification, Onconase was mutated to 
eliminate all acid labile sequences thus reducing the release of unwanted 
peptides during the acid cleavage. Mutations were chosen to preserve the 
differential solubility of Onconase as function of pH, which allows its 
selective precipitation at neutral pH after the cleavage. The improved carrier 
allowed the production of 15-18 mg of recombinant peptide per liter of culture 
with 96-98% purity without the need of further chromatographic steps after the 
acid cleavage. The antimicrobial activity of the recombinant peptide, with an 
additional proline at the N-terminus, was tested on Gram-negative and 
Gram-positive strains and was found to be identical to that measured for 
synthetic GKY20. This finding suggests that N-terminal proline residue does not 
change the antimicrobial properties of recombinant (P)GKY20. The improved 
carrier, which does not contain cysteine and methionine residues, Asp-Pro and 
Asn-Gly sequences, is well suited for the production of peptides using any of 
the most popular chemical cleavage methods.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146552
PMCID: PMC4726619
PMID: 26808536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1035. Cytoskeleton (Hoboken). 2013 Oct;70(10):604-22. doi: 10.1002/cm.21122. Epub 2013 
Jul 10.

Mapping cytoskeletal protein function in cells by means of nanobodies.

Van Audenhove I(1), Van Impe K, Ruano-Gallego D, De Clercq S, De Muynck K, 
Vanloo B, Verstraete H, Fernández LÁ, Gettemans J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent 
University, Belgium.

Nanobodies or VHHs are single domain antigen binding fragments derived from 
heavy-chain antibodies naturally occurring in species of the Camelidae. Due to 
their ease of cloning, high solubility and intrinsic stability, they can be 
produced at low cost. Their small size, combined with high affinity and antigen 
specificity, enables recognition of a broad range of structural (undruggable) 
proteins and enzymes alike. Focusing on two actin binding proteins, gelsolin and 
CapG, we summarize a general protocol for the generation, cloning and production 
of nanobodies. Furthermore, we describe multiple ways to characterize 
antigen-nanobody binding in more detail and we shed light on some applications 
with recombinant nanobodies. The use of nanobodies as intrabodies is clarified 
through several case studies revealing new cytoskeletal protein properties and 
testifying to the utility of nanobodies as intracellular bona fide protein 
inhibitors. Moreover, as nanobodies can traverse the plasma membrane of 
eukaryotic cells by means of the enteropathogenic E. coli type III protein 
secretion system, we show that in this promising way of nanobody delivery, actin 
pedestal formation can be affected following nanobody injection.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cm.21122
PMID: 23818458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2015 Jan;112(1):181-8. doi: 10.1002/bit.25347. Epub 2014 Sep 
26.

Engineering the oxygen sensing regulation results in an enhanced recombinant 
human hemoglobin production by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Martínez JL(1), Liu L, Petranovic D, Nielsen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Novo Nordisk Foundation 
Center for Biosustainability, Chalmers University of Technology, Kemivägen 10, 
SE-41296, Göteborg, Sweden.

Comment in
    Bioengineered. 2016 Apr 2;7(2):112-5.

Efficient production of appropriate oxygen carriers for transfusions (blood 
substitutes or artificial blood) has been pursued for many decades, and to date 
several strategies have been used, from synthetic polymers to cell-free 
hemoglobin carriers. The recent advances in the field of metabolic engineering 
also allowed the generation of different genetically modified organisms for the 
production of recombinant human hemoglobin. Several studies have showed very 
promising results using the bacterium Escherichia coli as a production platform, 
reporting hemoglobin titers above 5% of the total cell protein content. However, 
there are still certain limitations regarding the protein stability and 
functionality of the recombinant hemoglobin produced in bacterial systems. In 
order to overcome these limitations, yeast systems have been proposed as the 
eukaryal alternative. We recently reported the generation of a set of plasmids 
to produce functional human hemoglobin in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, with final 
titers of active hemoglobin exceeding 4% of the total cell protein. In this 
study, we propose a strategy for further engineering S. cerevisiae by altering 
the oxygen sensing pathway by deleting the transcription factor HAP1, which 
resulted in an increase of the final recombinant active hemoglobin titer 
exceeding 7% of the total cellular protein.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25347
PMID: 25082441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Mol Biol Rep. 2011 Mar;38(3):2091-8. doi: 10.1007/s11033-010-0335-4. Epub 2010 
Sep 21.

Soluble expression, purification, and characterization of recombinant human 
flotillin-2 (reggie-1) in Escherichia coli.

Song J(1), Chen W, Lu Z, Hu X, Ding Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, School of Life Sciences, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200433, China.

Large scale production of recombinant human flotillin-2 (reggie-1) is desirable 
for structural and biochemical studies. However, as the major lipid rafts 
specific hydrophobic protein, flotillin-2 was difficult to be expressed as 
soluble and functional form in prokaryotic system. In this study, we first 
cloned and expressed human flotillin-2 in Escherichia coli with five different 
fusion tags: poly-histidine, glutathione S-transferase (GST), thioredoxin (TRX), 
N-Utilization substance (NusA) and maltose binding protein (MBP). We screened 
the expression level and solubility of the five flotillin-2 fusion proteins, the 
best MBP tagged flotillin-2 was then large scale produced. The optimized 
purification procedure included two steps of chromatography: Ni-NTA affinity 
chromatography and anion exchange chromatography. The typical yield was 36.0 mg 
soluble and functional recombinant flotillin-2 from 1 L of culture medium with 
purity above 97%. The activity of recombinant flotillin-2 was verified by 
pull-down assay with flotillin-1, showing that the purified recombinant 
flotillin-2 can specifically interact with flotillin-1. The circular dichroism 
(CD) spectroscopy showed that recombinant flotillin-2 had a very stable 
secondary structure dominated by α-helix, β-turn and random structure.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-010-0335-4
PMID: 20857209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Nutrients. 2015 Jul 1;7(7):5309-26. doi: 10.3390/nu7075218.

Effects of Fuzhuan Brick-Tea Water Extract on Mice Infected with E. coli 
O157:H7.

Wang Y(1)(2), Xu A(3)(4), Liu P(5), Li Z(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Hunan Agriculture University, 
Changsha 410128, China. wang@hunau.net.
(2)Hunan Province Key Laboratory of Food and Biotechnology, Changsha 410128, 
China. wang@hunau.net.
(3)College of Food Science and Technology, Hunan Agriculture University, 
Changsha 410128, China. xuaiqing003@163.com.
(4)School of Life Science, Hunan University of Science and Technology, Xiangtan 
411201, China. xuaiqing003@163.com.
(5)College of Food Science and Technology, Hunan Agriculture University, 
Changsha 410128, China. lp102700@163.com.
(6)College of Food Science and Technology, Hunan Agriculture University, 
Changsha 410128, China. hnlizongjun@163.com.
(7)Hunan Province Key Laboratory of Food and Biotechnology, Changsha 410128, 
China. hnlizongjun@163.com.
(8)Functional Food Sub-center, National Research Center of Engineering 
&Technology for Utilization of Functional Ingredients from Botanicals, Hunan 
Agricultural University, Changsha 410128, China. hnlizongjun@163.com.

Fuzhuan brick-tea extract (FBTE) affects the physiology of mice infected with 
Escherichia coli O157:H7. For 10 consecutive days, 0.05, 0.5, and 1.0 g/mL FBTE 
was administered intragastrically to three groups of infected Kunming mice, and 
changes in immunological function, hematology, and histopathology were examined. 
The results revealed upregulation of platelets, total protein, and albumin along 
with downregulation of serum triglycerides, aspartate aminotransferase, 
creatinine, and urea nitrogen in FBTE-treated mice. Histological sections of 
stomach, kidney, duodenum, ileum, and colon suggested that infected mucous 
membranes could be rehabilitated by low- and high-dose FBTE and that 
inflammation was alleviated. Similarly, increased thymic function in mice 
treated with middle- and high-dose FBTE led to elevated serum hemolysin antibody 
titer and increased CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, as indicated by CD4+ and CD8+ 
expression on intestinal mucosa. Monocyte and macrophage function was improved 
by three FBTE dosages tested. Colonic microbiota analysis by denaturing gradient 
gel electrophoresis (DGGE) revealed characteristic bands in infected mice 
treated with middle- and high-dose FBTE and increased species diversity in 
Lactobacillus, Bacteroides, and Clostridium cluster IV. These results suggest 
that FBTE may protect kidney and liver of mice infected with E. coli O157:H7, 
improve immune function, and regulate the colonic microbiota.

DOI: 10.3390/nu7075218
PMCID: PMC4516995
PMID: 26140539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. J Chromatogr B Biomed Sci Appl. 2000 Jan 14;737(1-2):179-86. doi: 
10.1016/s0378-4347(99)00395-3.

Purification of recombinant hydantoinase and L-N-carbamoylase from Arthrobacter 
aurescens expressed in Escherichia coli: comparison of wild-type and genetically 
modified proteins.

Pietzsch M(1), Wiese A, Ragnitz K, Wilms B, Altenbuchner J, Mattes R, Syldatk C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemical Engineering, University of Stuttgart, Germany. 
pietzsch@ibvt.uni-stuttgart.de

Two enzymes, hydantoinase (HyuH) and L-N-carbamoylase (HyuC), are required for 
the biocatalytic production of natural and unnatural, optically pure L-amino 
acids starting from D,L-5-monosubstituted hydantoins using the so called 
'hydantoinase-method'. For the preparation of immobilized enzymes, which omit 
several drawbacks of whole cell biocatalysts, purified or at least enriched HyuH 
and HyuC have to be provided. In order to simplify existing purification 
protocols several genetically modified derivatives of HyuH and HyuC from 
Arthrobacter aurescens DSM 3747 have been cloned and expressed in E. coli. A 
fusion protein consisting of maltose-binding protein (MalE) and HyuH resulted in 
an enhanced solubility of the hydantoinase, which easily forms inclusion bodies. 
On the other hand the fusion protein could easily be purified with high yield 
(76%) by just one chromatographic step (amylose resin) and the complex 
purification protocol of the wild-type enzyme could therefore be simplified and 
shortened significantly. Interestingly, the specific activity of the MalE-HyuH 
fusion protein was as high as the wild-type enzyme despite that the molecular 
mass was doubled. A second modification of HyuH carrying a histidine-tag was 
efficiently bound to a metal affinity matrix but inactivated completely during 
elution from the column at either low pH or in the presence of imidazole. In the 
case of HyuC, an aspartate-tag has been added to the biocatalyst to allow an 
integrated purification-immobilization procedure since this enzyme is 
immobilized efficiently only via its carboxylic groups. The diminished 
isoelectric point of the Asp-tagged HyuC resulted in a simplified purification 
procedure. Compared to the wild-type enzyme expressed in E. coli HyuC-Asp6 was 
shifted off the elution range of the contaminating proteins and higher 
purification factors were obtained even in the capturing step. In contrast to 
HyuH, it was possible to purify a L-N-carbamoylase carrying a histidine-tag to 
apparent homogeneity using immobilized metal affinity chromatography. Therefore, 
the existing three step purification protocol was reduced to one chromatographic 
step and the yield of this relatively unstable protein enhanced remarkably.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4347(99)00395-3
PMID: 10681054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 May;36(9):e51. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn151. Epub 2008 Apr 
17.

Identification of soluble protein fragments by gene fragmentation and genetic 
selection.

Dyson MR(1), Perera RL, Shadbolt SP, Biderman L, Bromek K, Murzina NV, 
McCafferty J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, Cambridge 
CB2 1QW, UK. md458@cam.ac.uk

We describe a new method, which identifies protein fragments for soluble 
expression in Escherichia coli from a randomly fragmented gene library. 
Inhibition of E. coli dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) by trimethoprim (TMP) 
prevents growth, but this can be relieved by murine DHFR (mDHFR). Bacterial 
strains expressing mDHFR fusions with the soluble proteins green fluroscent 
protein (GFP) or EphB2 (SAM domain) displayed markedly increased growth rates 
with TMP compared to strains expressing insoluble EphB2 (TK domain) or 
ketosteroid isomerase (KSI). Therefore, mDHFR is affected by the solubility of 
fusion partners and can act as a reporter of soluble protein expression. Random 
fragment libraries of the transcription factor Fli1 were generated by 
deoxyuridine incorporation and endonuclease V cleavage. The fragments were 
cloned upstream of mDHFR and TMP resistant clones expressing soluble protein 
were identified. These were found to cluster around the DNA binding ETS domain. 
A selected Fli1 fragment was expressed independently of mDHFR and was judged to 
be correctly folded by various biophysical methods including NMR. Soluble 
fragments of the cell-surface receptor Pecam1 were also identified. This genetic 
selection method was shown to generate expression clones useful for both 
structural studies and antibody generation and does not require a priori 
knowledge of domain architecture.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn151
PMCID: PMC2396403
PMID: 18420658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2006 May 26;344(1):400-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2006.03.067. Epub 2006 Mar 20.

Purification and characterization of bovine steroid 21-hydroxylase (P450c21) 
efficiently expressed in Escherichia coli.

Arase M(1), Waterman MR, Kagawa N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, TN 37232, USA.

Steroid 21-hydroxylase, P450c21, is responsible for the conversion of 
progesterone and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone to their 21-hydroxylated 
derivatives. P450c21 has been poorly investigated because of difficulty in 
obtaining sufficient quantities of purified protein. To solve the problem, we 
have attempted to express the bovine P450c21 in Escherichia coli as a stable 
form. The N-terminal membrane anchor and basic regions of P450c21 were replaced 
by the basic region of CYP2C3. The engineered P450c21 was expressed at a level 
higher than 1.2micromol/L culture (>60mg/L) when coexpressed with molecular 
chaperones GroES/GroEL. Utilizing three steps of column chromatography, the 
protein was highly purified to the specific content 16.6nmol/mg (91.2% purity). 
The purified protein is a monomer in the presence of 1% sodium cholate as 
determined by gel filtration analysis, suggesting that this membrane 
anchor-truncated form of P450c21 is more soluble than the native form. The 
purified enzyme showed typical substrate-binding difference spectra and 
21-hydroxylase activities for both progesterone and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone. 
Truncation of the membrane anchor increases solubility of P450c21 facilitating 
expression of this protein in E. coli yielding sufficient quantities for both 
biochemical and biophysical studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2006.03.067
PMID: 16597434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2007 Nov;77(2):483-8. doi: 10.1007/s00253-007-1160-0. 
Epub 2007 Sep 1.

A novel, cheap and effective fusion expression system for the production of 
recombinant proteins.

Ding FX(1), Yan HL, Mei Q, Xue G, Wang YZ, Gao YJ, Sun SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, The Second Military Medical University, 
Xiangyin Road 800, Shanghai, 200433, People's Republic of China.

To develop faster, less expensive methods for expression and purification of 
proteins, the annexin B1-intein fusion expression system was constructed. The 
interest proteins fused to the annexin B1-intein tag were purified in a 
single-step method based on the Ca(2+)-binding activity of annexin B1, and the 
annexin B1-intein fusion tag was removed based on the self-cleaving activity of 
the intein. Moreover, we found that in some cases, fusion to annexin B1 can 
promote the solubility of heterologous proteins. The production of soluble and 
highly active of interleukin-2 and low-molecular single-chain urokinase in our 
results proved that the system was a novel, cheap and effective fusion 
expression system for the production of valuable soluble recombinant proteins in 
Escherichia coli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-007-1160-0
PMID: 17768617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. Int Immunopharmacol. 2006 Feb;6(2):269-78. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2005.08.014. 
Epub 2005 Sep 6.

The immunostimulatory effect of the recombinant apalbumin 1-major honeybee royal 
jelly protein-on TNFalpha release.

Majtán J(1), Kovácová E, Bíliková K, Simúth J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Apidology, Institute of Molecular Biology, Slovak 
Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 21, 845 51 Bratislava, Slovak Republic.

Apalbumin1 (Apa1) is the major royal jelly (RJ) and honey glycoprotein having 
various biological properties. We have previously demonstrated that Apa1 is a 
regular component of honey and honeybee pollen and stimulates macrophages to 
release tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). The recombinant Apa1 (rApa1) and 
its four recombinant protein fragments derived on the basis of partial tryptic 
products of Apa1 were prepared by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli 
BL21-CodonPlus(DE3)-RIL. L-arginine at 50 mM concentration was used for 
improving the recombinant protein solubility. We report that the proteinous 
moiety of glycoprotein is responsible for stimulation of TNFalpha production by 
murine peritoneal macrophages. Moreover, we have shown that immunostimulatory 
effect is significantly increased after partial tryptic digestion of Apa1. It 
has been determined that recombinant N-terminal fragment of Apa1 is the most 
active elicitor of TNFalpha release in comparison to other three protein 
fragments of Apa1, as well as to the native Apa1 and rApa1. Furthermore, it was 
found that native honey was able to stimulate TNFalpha secretion from murine 
macrophages, whereas the deproteinized honey had no effect on the release of 
TNFalpha. This result suggests that immunostimulatory effect of honey is based 
on its RJ-protein content, primarily on its dominant protein Apa1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2005.08.014
PMID: 16399632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. Virol Sin. 2015 Oct;30(5):379-85. doi: 10.1007/s12250-015-3638-8. Epub 2015 Oct 
19.

Introduction of temperature-sensitive helper and donor plasmids into Bac-to-Bac 
baculovirus expression systems.

Huang Z(1), Li A(1), Pan M(1), Wu W(1), Yuan M(1), Yang K(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 
510275, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 
510275, China. yangkai@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

In the baculovirus shuttle vector (bacmid) system, a helper plasmid and a donor 
plasmid are employed to insert heterologous genes into a cloned baculovirus 
genome via Tn7 transposition in Escherichia coli. The helper and donor plasmids 
are usually cotransfected with constructed bacmids into insect cells, which will 
lead to integration of these plasmids into the viral genome, and hence to the 
production of defective virions. In this study, to facilitate the preparation of 
plasmid-free recombinant bacmids, we modified a set of helper and donor plasmids 
by replacing their replication origins with that of a temperature-sensitive (ts) 
plasmid, pSIM6. Using the resulting ts helper plasmid pMON7124(ts) and the ts 
donor plasmid pFB1(ts)-PH-GFP, a recombinant bacmid, bAcWT-PG(-), was 
constructed, and the transposition efficiency was found to be 33.1%. The 
plasmids were then removed by culturing at 37 °C. For bAcWT-PG(-), the 
infectious progeny virus titer and the protein expression level under the 
control of the polyhedrin promoter were similar to those of a bacmid constructed 
with unmodified helper and donor plasmids. These ts plasmids will be useful for 
obtaining plasmid-free bacmids for both heterologous protein production and 
fundamental studies of baculovirus biology.

DOI: 10.1007/s12250-015-3638-8
PMCID: PMC8200906
PMID: 26494478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. Zhongguo Ying Yong Sheng Li Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Feb;24(1):122-4.

[Expression, purification and polyclonal antibody preparation of GST-Ccd1 fusion 
protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu Y(1), Jing XT, Ma X, Fan WH, Fan M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100850, China.

AIM: By using of Escherichia coli DH5alpha to express GST-Ccd1 fusion protein 
and which was purified by affinity chromatographic separation. The purified 
target protein was used to immunize rabbits to prepare polyclonal antibody.
METHODS: The previously constructed recombinant prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-5X-1-Ccd1 was transformed into Escherichia coli DH5alpha and was induced to 
expression by IPTG. The recombinant target protein was expressed with soluble 
state in Escherichia coli expression system which was separated and purified by 
chromatographic column stuffed with glutathione Sepharose 4B. The prepared 
antigen was used to immunize rabbits to get anti-Ccd1 specific rabbit original 
polyclonal antibody.
RESULTS: ELISA data demonstrated that the antibody titer of the serum was up to 
1:40 000. Immunohistochemistry analysis indicated that the "home-made" antibody 
had a specific interaction with Ccd1 protein and which could be used for 
extended experimental research.
CONCLUSION: The anti-Ccd1 polyclonal antibody we had prepared had a high quality 
of potency and specificity. The antibody was demonstrated by experiments that 
which could totally fulfill the requirement of immunoblotting and 
immunohistochemistry study of Ccd1. The antibody provided an useful experimental 
tool to profoundly research the tissue expression profile, intercellular 
location and biological function of Ccd1.

PMID: 21141575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 Nov;32(1):18-27. doi: 10.1016/S1046-5928(03)00188-8.

Overexpression and purification of recombinant membrane PsbH protein in 
Escherichia coli.

Halbhuber Z(1), Petrmichlová Z, Alexciev K, Thulin E, Stys D.

Author information:
(1)Photosynthesis Research Center, Institute of Physical Biology, University of 
South Bohemia, Zamek 136, 373 33 Nove Hrady, Czech Republic.

In this work, we featured an expression system that enables the production of 
sufficient quantities ( approximately mg) of low molecular weight membrane 
protein of photosystem II, PsbH protein, for solid-state NMR as well as other 
biophysical studies. PsbH gene from cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 
was cloned into a plasmid expression vector, which allowed expression of the 
PsbH protein as a glutathione-S transferase (GST) fusion protein in Escherichia 
coli BL21(DE3) cells. A relatively large GST anchor overcomes foreseeable 
problems with the low solubility of membrane proteins and the toxicity caused by 
protein incorporation into the membrane of the host organism. As a result, the 
majority of fusion protein was obtained in a soluble state and could be purified 
from crude bacterial lysate by affinity chromatography on immobilized 
glutathione under non-denaturing conditions. The PsbH protein was cleaved from 
the carrier protein with Factor Xa protease and purified on DEAE-cellulose 
column with yields of up to 2.1 microg protein/ml of bacterial culture. The 
procedure as we optimized is applicable for isolation of small membrane proteins 
for structural studies.

DOI: 10.1016/S1046-5928(03)00188-8
PMID: 14680935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Avicenna J Med Biotechnol. 2013 Oct;5(4):204-11.

Cloning, Expression and Purification of Penicillin Binding Protein2a (PBP2a) 
from Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus: A Study on Immunoreactivity in 
Balb/C Mouse.

Haghighat S(1), Siadat SD, Sorkhabadi SM, Sepahi AA, Mahdavi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Science and Research 
branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is a major nosocomial pathogen and 
the infection with this organism in human is increasing due to the spread of 
antibiotic resistant strains. One of the resistance mechanisms of S. aureus 
comprises modification in binding proteins to penicillin. Vaccine strategy may 
be useful in controlling the infections induced by this organism. This study 
aimed at developing and producing the recombinant protein PBP2a as a vaccine 
candidate and evaluating the related humoral immune response in a murine model.
METHODS: A 242 bp fragment of mecA gene was amplified by PCR from S. aureus COL 
strain and then cloned into prokaryotic expression vector pET-24a. For 
expression of recombinant protein, pET24a-mec plasmid was transformed into 
competent E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. Recombinant protein was over expressed with 
1 mM isopropythio-β-D-galctoside (IPTG) and purified using Ni-NTA agarose. 
SDS-PAGE and western blotting were carried out to confirm protein expression. 
For immunization of experimental groups, Balb/c mice were injected 
subcutaneously with 20 µg of recombinant PBP2a three times with three weeks 
intervals. The sera of experimental groups were collected three weeks after the 
last immunization and then specific antibodies were evaluated by ELISA method.
RESULTS: Successful cloning of mecA was confirmed by colony-PCR, enzymatic 
digestion, and sequencing. SDS-PAGE and western blot analysis showed that 
recombinant protein with molecular weight of 13 kDa is over expressed. In 
addition, high titer of specific antibody against PBP2a in vaccinated mice was 
developed as compared with the control group and confirmed the immunogenicity of 
the vaccine candidate.
CONCLUSION: Results suggest that PBP2a recombinant induced specific antibodies 
and can be used as Staphylococcal vaccine candidate after further studies.

PMCID: PMC3838764
PMID: 24285994


1048. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2020 Sep 25;75(9-10):313-317. doi: 
10.1515/znc-2020-0050.

The expression and purification of LpxA of Chlamydia trachomatis and preparation 
of its polyclonal antibody.

Li DK(1), Mu YT(2), Feng HH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Renmin Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, 
Shiyan, Hubei, China.
(2)Department of TCM, Renmin Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, Shiyan, 
Hubei, PR China.
(3)Xiangyang No.1 People's Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, No. 15 
Jiefang Road, Xiangyang, Hubei, 441000, PR China.

The purpose of this study is to purify the LpxA protein of Chlamydia trachomatis 
(Ct) and prepare the polyclonal antibody against LpxA protein, so as to lay a 
foundation for studying the function of LpxA protein. The LpxA gene was 
amplified by PCR. The expression plasmid pET28a-LpxA was constructed by using 
pET28a as the vector. The fusion protein containing 6 histidine tag was induced 
by IPTG and purified by Ni2+ chromatography gel. The purified His-LpxA protein 
was used as an immunogen to immunize New Zealand rabbits subcutaneously through 
the back to prepare polyclonal antibody. Immunoblotting was used to detect the 
reaction between the antibody and His-LpxA. The determination of polyclonal 
antibody titer was detected by ELISA. The relative molecular weight of His-LpxA 
was 32.8 kDa, and it could be expressed in Escherichia coli. The purity of the 
purified protein was about 95%. After immunizing New Zealand rabbits, the 
antiserum was able to recognize the recombinant His-LpxA protein with a titer 
greater than 1:10240. In this study, LpxA protein was successfully purified and 
antiserum was prepared, which provided an experimental basis for studying the 
function of LpxA protein.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2020-0050
PMID: 32374296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;1880:3-15. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8873-0_1.

Recombinant Expression, Purification, and Assembly of p62 Filaments.

Tarafder AK(1), Guesdon A(1), Kuhm T(1), Sachse C(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Structural and Computational Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology 
Laboratory (EMBL), Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Structural and Computational Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology 
Laboratory (EMBL), Heidelberg, Germany. c.sachse@fz-juelich.de.
(3)Ernst-Ruska Centre for Microscopy and Spectroscopy with Electrons 
(ER-C-3/Structural Biology), Forschungszentrum Jülich, Jülich, Germany. 
c.sachse@fz-juelich.de.

This chapter describes the recombinant overexpression of the canonical selective 
autophagy receptor p62/SQSTM1 in E. coli and affinity purification. Also 
described is the method to induce p62 filament assembly and their visualization 
by negative stain electron microscopy (EM). In cells, p62 forms large structures 
termed p62 bodies and has been shown to be aggregation prone. This tendency to 
aggregate poses problems for expression and purification in vitro, which is a 
prerequisite for structural analysis. Here, we describe the method to express 
and purify soluble p62, using the solubility tag, MBP, in conjunction with 
autoinduction. Furthermore, we describe the protocol to assemble p62 into 
filaments by controlling the ionic strength of its buffer, as well as the 
preparation of negative stain EM grids to visualize the filaments. In vitro 
formed p62 filaments can be used to study receptor cargo interactions in minimal 
reconstituted autophagy model systems.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-8873-0_1
PMID: 30610687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2018;48(9):823-833. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1514511. 
Epub 2018 Oct 10.

Cloning, large-scale production and characterization of fusion protein 
(P-TUFT-ALT-2) of Brugian abundant larval transcript-2 with tuftsin in Pichia 
pastoris.

Paul R(1), Karthik S(1), Vimalraj P(1), Meenakshisundaram S(1), Kaliraj P(1).

Author information:
(1)a Centre for Biotechnology , Anna University , Chennai , India.

Lymphatic filariasis is a "disease of poor people" due to a large section of 
affected people with economic backwardness. Therefore, successful elimination of 
this disease requires a cost-effective prophylactic agent such as vaccine along 
with conventional drugs. The Abundant Larval Transcript-2 (BmALT-2) protein of 
Brugia malayi has been recognized as the most potential vaccine candidate. 
Tuftsin, a tetra-peptide immunopotentiator has already shown the enhanced 
immunogenicity of various vaccine antigens in earlier studies. This study deals 
with the development of tuft-alt-2 fusion construct and a suitable culture 
condition for its large-scale production in Pichia pastoris. The recombinant P. 
pastoris/tuft-alt-2 with 9-11 copies of the gene construct exhibited the highest 
expression level. The molecular weight of P-TUFT-ALT-2 was determined as 28 kDa 
in SDS-PAGE including 3 kDa due to glycosylation. The dry cell biomass was 57.4 
gL-1 in the bioreactor. The P-TUFT-ALT-2 expression was measured as about 35 mg 
L-1, which was 102% higher than flask culture. The P-TUFT-ALT-2 produced the 
highest 65,000 IgG peak titer in Balb/c mice. Moreover, P-TUFT-ALT-2 exhibited 
about 9.46% higher splenocyte proliferation than E. coli expressed E-ALT-2 
alone. The enhanced secreted production of P-TUFT-ALT-2 in bioreactor would step 
up its commercialization as an inexpensive commercial vaccine for human 
lymphatic filariasis.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2018.1514511
PMID: 30303452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Feb 11;19(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01300-9.

Heterologous caffeic acid biosynthesis in Escherichia coli is affected by choice 
of tyrosine ammonia lyase and redox partners for bacterial Cytochrome P450.

Haslinger K(1), Prather KLJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, USA. kljp@mit.edu.

BACKGROUND: Caffeic acid is industrially recognized for its antioxidant activity 
and therefore its potential to be used as an anti-inflammatory, anticancer, 
antiviral, antidiabetic and antidepressive agent. It is traditionally isolated 
from lignified plant material under energy-intensive and harsh chemical 
extraction conditions. However, over the last decade bottom-up biosynthesis 
approaches in microbial cell factories have been established, that have the 
potential to allow for a more tailored and sustainable production. One of these 
approaches has been implemented in Escherichia coli and only requires a two-step 
conversion of supplemented L-tyrosine by the actions of a tyrosine ammonia lyase 
and a bacterial Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase. Although the feeding of 
intermediates demonstrated the great potential of this combination of 
heterologous enzymes compared to others, no de novo synthesis of caffeic acid 
from glucose has been achieved utilizing the bacterial Cytochrome P450 thus far.
RESULTS: The herein described work aimed at improving the efficiency of this 
two-step conversion in order to establish de novo caffeic acid formation from 
glucose. We implemented alternative tyrosine ammonia lyases that were reported 
to display superior substrate binding affinity and selectivity, and increased 
the efficiency of the Cytochrome P450 by altering the electron-donating redox 
system. With this strategy we were able to achieve final titers of more than 
300 µM or 47 mg/L caffeic acid over 96 h in an otherwise wild type E. coli 
MG1655(DE3) strain with glucose as the only carbon source. We observed that the 
choice and gene dose of the redox system strongly influenced the Cytochrome P450 
catalysis. In addition, we were successful in applying a tethering strategy that 
rendered even a virtually unproductive Cytochrome P450/redox system combination 
productive.
CONCLUSIONS: The caffeic acid titer achieved in this study is about 10% higher 
than titers reported for other heterologous caffeic acid pathways in wildtype E. 
coli without L-tyrosine supplementation. The tethering strategy applied to the 
Cytochrome P450 appears to be particularly useful for non-natural Cytochrome 
P450/redox partner combinations and could be useful for other recombinant 
pathways utilizing bacterial Cytochromes P450.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01300-9
PMCID: PMC7011507
PMID: 32046741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1052. Chembiochem. 2021 Sep 14;22(18):2805-2813. doi: 10.1002/cbic.202100257. Epub 
2021 Jul 29.

Evaluation of an E. coli Cell Extract Prepared by Lysozyme-Assisted Sonication 
via Gene Expression, Phage Assembly and Proteomics.

Falgenhauer E(1), von Schönberg S(1), Meng C(2), Mückl A(1), Vogele K(1), 
Emslander Q(1), Ludwig C(2), Simmel FC(1).

Author information:
(1)Physics of Synthetic Biological Systems, Physics Department E14, Technical 
University of Munich, Am Coulombwall 4a, 85748, Garching, Germany.
(2)Bavarian Center for Biomolecular Mass Spectrometry (BayBioMS), Technical 
University of Munich, Gregor-Mendel-Strasse 4, 85354, Freising, Germany.

Over the past decades, starting from crude cell extracts, a variety of 
successful preparation protocols and optimized reaction conditions have been 
established for the production of cell-free gene expression systems. One of the 
crucial steps during the preparation of cell extract-based expression systems is 
the cell lysis procedure itself, which largely determines the quality of the 
active components of the extract. Here we evaluate the utility of an E. coli 
cell extract, which was prepared using a combination of lysozyme incubation and 
a gentle sonication step. As quality measure, we demonstrate the cell-free 
expression of YFP at concentrations up to 0.6 mg/mL. In addition, we produced 
and assembled T7 bacteriophages up to a titer of 108  PFU/mL. State-of-the-art 
quantitative proteomics was used to compare the produced extracts with each 
other and with a commercial extract. The differences in protein composition were 
surprisingly small between lysozyme-assisted sonication (LAS) extracts, but we 
observed an increase in the release of DNA-binding proteins for increasing 
numbers of sonication cycles. Proteins taking part in carbohydrate metabolism, 
glycolysis, amino acid and nucleotide related pathways were found to be more 
abundant in the LAS extract, while proteins related to RNA modification and 
processing, DNA modification and replication, transcription regulation, 
initiation, termination and the TCA cycle were found enriched in the commercial 
extract.

© 2021 The Authors. ChemBioChem published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/cbic.202100257
PMCID: PMC8518995
PMID: 34240805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1053. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2011 Apr;90(1):181-91. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-010-3058-5. Epub 2011 Jan 7.

A rational design for hepatitis B virus X protein refolding and bioprocess 
development guided by second virial coefficient studies.

Basu A(1), Chen WN, Leong SS.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, Nanyang Technological 
University, 62 Nanyang Drive, Nanyang, Singapore.

The hepatitis B virus X (HBx) protein is well known for its role in hepatitis B 
virus infection that often leads to hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite the 
clinical importance of HBx, there is little progress in anti-HBx drug 
development strategies due to shortage of HBx from native sources. Consistent 
expression of HBx as insoluble inclusion bodies within various expression 
systems has largely hindered HBx manufacturing via economical biosynthesis 
routes. Confronted by this roadblock, this study aims to quantitatively 
understand HBx protein behaviour in solution that will guide the rational 
development of a refolding-based bioprocess for HBx production. Second virial 
coefficient (SVC) measurements were employed to study the effects of varying 
physicochemical parameters on HBx intermolecular protein interaction. The SVC 
results suggest that covalent HBx aggregates play a key role in protein 
destabilisation during refolding. The use of an SVC-optimised refolding 
environment yielded bioactive and soluble HBx proteins from the 
denatured-reduced inclusion body state. This study provides new knowledge on HBx 
solubility behaviour in vitro, which is important in structure-function 
elucidation behaviour of this hydrophobic protein. Importantly, a rational 
refolding-based Escherichia coli bioprocess that can deliver purified and 
soluble HBx at large scale is successfully developed, which opens the way for 
rapid preparation of soluble HBx for further clinical and characterisation 
studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-010-3058-5
PMID: 21212947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Jan;39(1):54-60. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.09.012.

Optimized expression of soluble cyclomaltodextrinase of thermophilic origin in 
Escherichia coli by using a soluble fusion-tag and by tuning of inducer 
concentration.

Turner P(1), Holst O, Karlsson EN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Lund University, SE-221 00 Lund, Sweden. 
pernilla.turner@biotek.lu.se

Cyclomaltodextrinases are multidomain and often dimeric proteins from the 
alpha-amylase family (glycoside hydrolase family 13) which frequently have been 
very difficult to express in active form in Escherichia coli. To express the 
soluble form of this type of proteins in larger quantities the expression has to 
be optimized. We have used and combined two strategies to increase the yield of 
soluble recombinant cyclomaltodextrinase expressed from a gene originating from 
the thermophilic Gram-positive bacterium Anoxybacillus flavithermus. One 
strategy involved tuning of the inducer concentration while the other involved 
fusion of the gene encoding the target protein to the gene encoding the 
solubility-enhancing protein NusA. The enzyme activity could be increased 6-7 
times solely by finely tuning the IPTG concentration, but the activity level was 
very sensitive to the amount of inducer applied. Hence, the IPTG concentration 
may have to be optimized for every protein under the conditions used. The fusion 
protein-strategy gave a slightly lower total activity but the level of soluble 
recombinant protein obtained was in this case significantly less sensitive to 
the inducer concentration applied. Moreover, the activity could be increased 
about 2-fold by cleaving off the solubility-tag (NusA) by enterokinase.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.09.012
PMID: 15596360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. Anal Biochem. 2005 Aug 15;343(2):313-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2005.05.015.

Construction of a set Gateway-based destination vectors for high-throughput 
cloning and expression screening in Escherichia coli.

Busso D(1), Delagoutte-Busso B, Moras D.

Author information:
(1)Département de Biologie et de Génomique Structurales, IGBMC, 
CNRS/INSERM/Université Louis Pasteur, Parc d'Innovation, 1 rue Laurent Fries, 
BP10142, 67404 Illkirch Cedex, France. djbusso@igbmc.u-strasbg.fr

We describe here the construction of a 10-Gateway-based vector set applicable 
for high-throughput cloning and for expressing recombinant proteins in 
Escherichia coli. Plasmids bear elements required to produce recombinant 
proteins under control of the T7 promoter and encode different N-terminal 
partners. Since the vector set is derived from a unique backbone, a consistent 
comparison of the impact of fusion partner(s) on protein expression and 
solubility is easily amenable. Finally, a sequence encoding a six-histidine tag 
has been inserted to be in frame with the cloned open reading frame either at 
its C terminus or at the N terminus, giving the flexibility of choosing the 
six-histidine tag location for further purification. To test the applicability 
of our vector set, expression and solubility profile and six-histidine tag 
accessibility have been demonstrated for two Bacillus subtilis signaling 
proteins' encoding genes (SBGP codes E0508 and E0511).

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2005.05.015
PMID: 15993367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. Virus Genes. 2009 Feb;38(1):1-9. doi: 10.1007/s11262-008-0292-3. Epub 2008 Oct 
29.

Expression of SARS-coronavirus spike glycoprotein in Pichia pastoris.

Chuck CP(1), Wong CH, Chow LM, Fung KP, Waye MM, Tsui SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong 
Kong.

To establish a rapid and economical method for the expression of viral proteins 
in high yield and purity by Pichia pastoris, the S protein of the SARS-CoV was 
selected in this study. Six S glycoprotein fragments were expressed in 
Escherichia coli BL21 and yeast KM71H strains. After purification by affinity 
chromatography, the protein identities were confirmed by western blot analysis, 
N-terminal sequencing and mass spectrometry. The proteins expressed in E. coli 
were low in solubility and bound by GroEL. They still formed soluble aggregates 
even when the GroEL was removed by urea. The proteins expressed in P. pastoris 
were relatively soluble. The maximal yield of the RBD reached 46 mg/l with 
purity greater than 95%. Pull-down assay revealed that ACE2 was specifically 
captured from cell lysate, indicating that the RBD was biologically active. The 
glycosylated and deglycosylated RBD was then subjected to SEC and results showed 
that deglycosylated RBD formed soluble aggregates again. Taken together, pure 
and biological active RBD of the S protein could be expressed in P. pastoris, 
and the P. pastoris expression platform will be a good alternative for the 
expression of viral proteins, in particular, the highly glycosylated surface 
proteins that mediate the tissue tropism and viral entry.

DOI: 10.1007/s11262-008-0292-3
PMCID: PMC7088578
PMID: 18958613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Virol J. 2010 Apr 29;7:83. doi: 10.1186/1743-422X-7-83.

Polyclonal antibody against the DPV UL46M protein can be a diagnostic candidate.

Lu L(1), Cheng A, Wang M, Jiang J, Zhu D, Jia R, Luo Q, Liu F, Chen Z, Chen X, 
Yang J.

Author information:
(1)Avian Diseases Research Center, College of Veterinary Medicine of Sichuan 
Agricultural University, Ya, an, Sichuan, China.

BACKGROUND: The duck plague virus (DPV) UL46 protein (VP11/12) is a 739-amino 
acid tegument protein encoded by the UL46 gene. We analyzed the amino acid 
sequence of UL46 using bioinformatics tools and defined the main antigenic 
domains to be between nucleotides 700-2,220 in the UL46 sequence. This region 
was designated UL46M. The DPV UL46 and UL46M genes were both expressed in 
Escherichia coli Rosetta (DE3) induced by isopropy1-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside 
(IPTG) following polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and subcloning 
into the prokaryotic expression vector pET32a(+). The recombinant proteins were 
purified using a Ni-NTA spin column and used to generate the polyclonal antibody 
against UL46 and UL46M in New Zealand white rabbits. The titer was then tested 
using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and agar diffusion reaction, and 
the specificity was tested by western blot analysis. Subsequently, we 
established Dot-ELISA using the polyclonal antibody and applied it to DPV 
detection.
RESULTS: In our study, the DPV UL46M fusion protein, with a relative molecular 
mass of 79 kDa, was expressed in E. coli Rosetta (DE3). Expression of the full 
UL46 gene failed, which was consistent with the results from the bioinformatic 
analysis. The expressed product was directly purified using Ni-NTA spin column 
to prepare the polyclonal antibody against UL46M. The titer of the anti-UL46M 
antisera was over 1:819,200 as determined by ELISA and 1:8 by agar diffusion 
reaction. Dot-ELISA was used to detect DPV using a 1:60 dilution of anti-UL46M 
IgG and a 1:5,000 dilution of horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled goat 
anti-rabbit IgG.
CONCLUSIONS: The anti-UL46M polyclonal antibody reported here specifically 
identifies DPV, and therefore, it is a promising diagnostic tool for DPV 
detection in animals. UL46M and the anti-UL46M antibody can be used for further 
clinical examination and research of DPV.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-422X-7-83
PMCID: PMC2867803
PMID: 20429885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Virus Res. 2021 Nov;305:198552. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2021.198552. Epub 2021 
Aug 27.

Development of a subunit vaccine based on fiber2 and hexon against fowl 
adenovirus serotype 4.

Hu J(1), Li G(1), Wang X(2), Cai L(3), Rong M(1), Li H(1), Xie M(1), Zhang Z(1), 
Rong J(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, No. 88 Jingmi Road, Jingzhou, 
Hubei 434000, PR China.
(2)Jingzhou Changxin Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Jingzhou, Hubei 434000, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Animal Genetic Engineering Vaccine, Qingdao Yebio 
Biological Engineering Co., Ltd., Qingdao, Shandong 266000, PR China.
(4)College of Life Science, Yangtze University, No. 88 Jingmi Road, Jingzhou, 
Hubei 434000, PR China; State Key Laboratory of Animal Genetic Engineering 
Vaccine, Qingdao Yebio Biological Engineering Co., Ltd., Qingdao, Shandong 
266000, PR China. Electronic address: 200459@yangtzeu.edu.cn.

Hepatitis-hydropericardium syndrome (HHS) is widespread in China and causes high 
chicken mortality that results in great economic losses. A safe and effective 
vaccine is needed, and a subunit vaccine has potential for development. In this 
study, a truncated region of the FAdV-4 fiber 2 fused with coding sequence of 
one epitope of hexon was expressed in a prokaryotic expression system, and the 
immune protective effects of different doses of recombinant fiber 2 subunit 
vaccine on SPF chickens were compared. The recombinant fiber2 (Gly275- Pro479 
aa)-hexon (Met21-Val51 aa) protein (rFH) obtained in Escherichia coli showed 
good solubility. The chicken survival rate at the lowest dose (2.5 μg/bird) was 
75% (6/8), and at higher doses (≥5 μg/bird) was 100% (8/8) in challenge 
experiment. Two chickens in the 2.5 μg/bird treatment showed severe lesions, 
while birds in the higher dose treatments showed no obvious tissue damage as 
determined by histopathologic analysis of liver and spleen. Absolute 
quantitative real-time PCR showed no viral load in the ≥5 μg/bird treatments, 
but two chickens in the 2.5 μg/bird treatment had high viral loads. The 
challenge experience demonstrated that the rFH vaccine provided 100% protection 
at ≥5 μg/bird. These results suggested that rFH protein as an effective vaccine 
to protect against FAdV-4 and provided a new idea for the development of vaccine 
against HHS.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2021.198552
PMID: 34454971


1059. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Dec;20(6):1302-6.

[Expression and purification of GST-CML28 fusion protein and preparation of its 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Mao X(1), Zhang B, Bai XL, Liu LL, Zhang DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, Hubei Province, China.

This study was aimed to investigate the expression of GST-CML28 in Escherichia 
Coli and to prepare its antibody. The constructed recombinant expression vectors 
CML28-pGEX-3X were transformed into Escherichia Coli BL21 under IPTG induction. 
The protein was abstracted from the transformers, and purified by a GSTrap FF 
column. The rabbits were immunized by the purified fusion protein to produce 
serum with anti-CML28 antibody. The serum was purified by chromatographic column 
stuffed with glutathione Sephamse 4B to get the antibody. The specific antibody 
against CML28 was further identified by ELISA, Western blot, 
immunohistochemistry and quantum dot luminescence. The results indicated that 
GST-CML28 fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and its specific 
polyclonal antibody was obtained. It is concluded that the anti-CML28 polyclonal 
antibodies with high titer and specificity are successfully prepared. These 
antibodies provide an useful experimental tool to profoundly research the 
physiological significance and biological function of the CML28 gene.

PMID: 23257421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. Poult Sci. 2004 Dec;83(12):1973-8. doi: 10.1093/ps/83.12.1973.

A plasmid DNA encoding chicken interleukin-6 and Escherichia coli K88 fimbrial 
protein FaeG stimulates the production of anti-K88 fimbrial antibodies in 
chickens.

Cho SH(1), Loewen PC, Marquardt RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3T 
2N2, Canada.

Immunization using a plasmid to deliver an encoded protein for expression in 
situ as the antigen is a promising technology. A plasmid encoding the 
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli K88 fimbrial protein FaeG when injected into 
chickens stimulates the production of antibodies against the fimbrial protein, 
similar to what has been observed in mice. The efficacy of a genetic adjuvant on 
fimbrial antibody production was tested by introducing the gene for chicken 
interleukin-6 in tandem with the faeG gene. Expression of both the fimbrial FaeG 
protein and chicken interleukin-6 protein was confirmed in COS-M6 cells. 
Slightly higher antiFaeG antibody titer in chickens was obtained compared with 
immunization with the plasmid encoding FaeG alone, especially at 10 (19%, P < 
0.05) and 12 (27%, P < 0.05) wk, respectively, after the secondary immunization. 
Elevated antiFaeG antibody titer induced by chicken interleukin-6 and FaeG 
proteins expressed jointly persisted longer than when induced by FaeG protein 
alone. This is the first report of an avian cytokine enhancing an immune 
response, and confirms that coexpression of the antigen and adjuvant from a 
plasmid delivered by DNA immunization is an effective protocol.

DOI: 10.1093/ps/83.12.1973
PMID: 15615009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Mar;95:259-64. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.01.007. Epub 
2014 Jan 27.

Expression, purification, and solubility optimization of peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase 
1 from Bacillus cereus.

Taylor-Creel K(1), Hames MC(2), Holloway WB(3), McFeeters H(4), McFeeters RL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, 301 Sparkman 
Drive, Huntsville, AL 35899, USA. Electronic address: kdtcreel@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, 301 Sparkman 
Drive, Huntsville, AL 35899, USA. Electronic address: marychames@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, 301 Sparkman 
Drive, Huntsville, AL 35899, USA. Electronic address: wbholloway2@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, 301 Sparkman 
Drive, Huntsville, AL 35899, USA. Electronic address: hk0003@uah.edu.
(5)Department of Chemistry, University of Alabama in Huntsville, 301 Sparkman 
Drive, Huntsville, AL 35899, USA. Electronic address: robert.mcfeeters@uah.edu.

Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase 1 cleaves the ester bond of peptidyl-tRNA thereby 
recycling peptidyl-tRNAs generated from premature termination of translation and 
expression of minigenes and short ORFs. Bacterial Pth1 is essential, highly 
conserved, and has no essential eukaryotic homolog making it a good target for 
antibacterial development. Herein we describe the cloning of pth1 gene from 
Bacillus cereus as an N-terminal hexahistidine fusion protein. Solubility was 
optimized for overexpression in Escherichia coli. Purity greater than 95% was 
achieved in one chromatography step. Yields greater than 12mg of purified Pth1 
per liter of minimal media were achieved and buffer conditions for long-term 
solubility were determined. Enzymatic activity of Pth1 from B. cereus was 
confirmed and quantification of Michaelis-Menten parameters reported.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.01.007
PMID: 24480186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. Glycobiology. 2011 Oct;21(10):1349-61. doi: 10.1093/glycob/cwr074. Epub 2011 Jun 
1.

High-resolution structural insights on the sugar-recognition and fusion tag 
properties of a versatile β-trefoil lectin domain from the mushroom Laetiporus 
sulphureus.

Angulo I(1), Acebrón I, de las Rivas B, Muñoz R, Rodríguez-Crespo I, Menéndez M, 
García P, Tateno H, Goldstein IJ, Pérez-Agote B, Mancheño JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cristalografía y Biología Estructural, Instituto de Química 
Física Rocasolano, CSIC, Serrano 119, E-28006 Madrid, Spain.

In this work, we analyzed at high resolution the sugar-binding mode of the 
recombinant N-terminal ricin-B domain of the hemolytic protein LSLa (LSL(150)) 
from the mushroom Laetiporus sulphureus and also provide functional in vitro 
evidence suggesting that, together with its putative receptor-binding role, this 
module may also increase the solubility of its membrane pore-forming partner. We 
first demonstrate that recombinant LSL(150) behaves as an autonomous folding 
unit and an active lectin. We have determined its crystal structure at 1.47 Å 
resolution and also that of the [LSL(150):(lactose)β, γ)] binary complex at 
1.67 Å resolution. This complex reveals two lactose molecules bound to the β and 
γ sites of LSL(150), respectively. Isothermal titration calorimetry indicates 
that LSL(150) binds two lactoses in solution with highly different affinities. 
Also, we test the working hypothesis that LSL(150) exhibits in vivo properties 
typical of solubility tags. With this aim, we have fused an engineered version 
of LSL(150) (LSL(t)) to the N-terminal end of various recombinant proteins. All 
the designed LSL(150)-tagged fusion proteins were successfully produced at high 
yield, and furthermore, the target proteins were purified by a straightforward 
affinity procedure on agarose-based matrices due to the excellent properties of 
LSL(150) as an affinity tag. An optimized protocol for target protein 
purification was devised, which involved removal of the LSL(150) tag through 
in-column cleavage of the fusion proteins with His(6)-tagged TEV endoprotease. 
These results permitted to set up a novel, lectin-based system for production 
and purification of recombinant proteins in E. coli cells with attractive 
biotechnological applications.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwr074
PMID: 21632870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. Microb Cell Fact. 2009 Mar 24;8:17. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-8-17.

Microbial factories for recombinant pharmaceuticals.

Ferrer-Miralles N(1), Domingo-Espín J, Corchero JL, Vázquez E, Villaverde A.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, 08193 Barcelona, Spain. antoni.villaverde@uab.cat.

Most of the hosts used to produce the 151 recombinant pharmaceuticals so far 
approved for human use by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and/or by the 
European Medicines Agency (EMEA) are microbial cells, either bacteria or yeast. 
This fact indicates that despite the diverse bottlenecks and obstacles that 
microbial systems pose to the efficient production of functional mammalian 
proteins, namely lack or unconventional post-translational modifications, 
proteolytic instability, poor solubility and activation of cell stress 
responses, among others, they represent convenient and powerful tools for 
recombinant protein production. The entering into the market of a progressively 
increasing number of protein drugs produced in non-microbial systems has not 
impaired the development of products obtained in microbial cells, proving the 
robustness of the microbial set of cellular systems (so far Escherichia coli and 
Saccharomyces cerevisae) developed for protein drug production. We summarize 
here the nature, properties and applications of all those pharmaceuticals and 
the relevant features of the current and potential producing hosts, in a 
comparative way.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-8-17
PMCID: PMC2669800
PMID: 19317892


1064. Chin Med Sci J. 2004 Sep;19(3):221-4.

Expression and subcellular localization of P9-ZFD protein in patients with 
myasthenia gravis.

Ren MS(1), Lu CZ, Qiao J, Ren HM, Xu R, Gan RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Huashan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040. rmingshan@msn.com

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify the protein coded by the TRAF-type zinc finger 
domain of myasthenia gravis (MG)-related gene P9 (P9-ZFD) and to prepare P9-ZFD 
antiserum for detecting expression and subcellular distribution of P9-ZFD 
protein in the skeletal muscles of patient with MG.
METHODS: The cDNA encoding P9-ZFD was amplified by RT-PCR. The cloned P9-ZFD 
cDNA was ligated into pET24a, and the P9-ZFD recombinant protein was induced via 
E. coli. BL21 (DE3) and purified by histidine affinity chromatography. P9-ZFD 
antiserum was prepared and its titer and specificity were determined by ELISA 
and Western blot. Expression and subcellular distribution of P9-ZFD protein in 
the skeletal muscles of MG and control were studied.
RESULTS: The molecular weight of purified P9-ZFD protein was about 30 kD. Its 
purity was more than 95%. Antiserum specific for P9-ZFD was excellent. P9-ZFD 
protein is fully confined to the cytoplasm membrane of skeletal muscle cell of 
MG, obvious immunostaining was absent in the A, I, and Z bands of cytoplasm and 
no immunoreactivity was observed in the skeletal muscle cell of control.
CONCLUSION: P9-ZFD protein is expressed as a cytoplasm membrane-bound protein 
and has obvious distribution difference in the skeletal muscle cells of patient 
with MG and normal control.

PMID: 15506653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Iran J Microbiol. 2010 Sep;2(3):120-7.

Antibody against recombinant heat labile enterotoxin B subunit (rLTB) could 
block LT binding to ganglioside M1 receptor.

Salimian J(1), Salmanian A, Khalesi R, Mohseni M, Moazzeni S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University.

OBJECTIVES: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is one of the most common 
agents of diarrhea among other bacterial agents. Designing and producing vaccine 
against these bacteria is one of the major purposes of World Health Organization 
(WHO). Due to presence of diverse clones of ETEC strains in the world, the use 
of global vaccines for ETEC infection is controversial. B subunit of heat labile 
toxin (LTB) was introduced as a vaccine candidate molecule by several 
investigators. The expression of LTB gene isolated from a local bacterial strain 
and investigation of its immunological property was the objective of this study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: LTB gene was isolated from a local isolated ETEC, cloned 
and expressed using pET28a expression vector. For LTB gene expression, the three 
main expression parameters (IPTG concentration, time and temperature of 
induction) were investigated. The recombinant protein was purified (>95%) with 
Ni-NTA column using 6XHis-tag and used as an antigen in ELISA test.
RESULTS: The immunological analyses showed production of high titer of specific 
antibody in immunized mice. Anti LTB Antibody could bind to whole toxin and 
neutralize the toxin through inhibition of its binding to the Ganglioside M1 
receptor.
CONCLUSION: The recombinant LTB protein is a highly immunogenic molecule. 
Considering the LTB role in ETEC pathogenesis, it can be taken into account as 
one of the most important components of vaccines against local ETEC.

PMCID: PMC3279785
PMID: 22347560


1066. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2016 Jan;32(1):51-63.

[Optimization of 1,2,4-butanetriol synthetic pathway in Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun L, Yang F, Zhu T, Li X, Sun H, Li Y, Xu Z, Zhang Y.

1,2,4-Butanetriol (BT) is an important non-natural chemical with a variety of 
industrial applications. A recombinant Escherichia coli biosynthesizing BT from 
D-xylose was constructed by heterologously expressing xdh and mdlC, and knocking 
out competing pathway genes including xylA, xylB, yjhE, yagH and ycdW. To 
optimize BT synthesis pathway, the third catalytic step that catalyzes the 
decarboxylation reaction of 3-deoxy-D-glycero-pentulosonic acid was identified 
as a potential bottleneck. Consequently, 2-keto acid decarboxylases from three 
different microorganisms were screened, and the kivD gene from Lactococcus 
lactis was found to increase BT titer by 191%. The improved strain BW-025 
reached a final BT titer of 2.38 g/L under optimized transformation conditions. 
Attempts on synthetic pathway optimization were also made by fine-tuning the 
expression levels of each enzyme involved in the whole pathway based on BW-025. 
As a result, an xdh overexpressed recombinant strain, BW-074 was finally 
generated, with 48.62% higher BT production than that of BW-025.

PMID: 27363198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Bioinformatics. 2022 Jan 27;38(4):941-946. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btab801.

NetSolP: predicting protein solubility in Escherichia coli using language 
models.

Thumuluri V(1), Martiny HM(2), Almagro Armenteros JJ(3), Salomon J(4), Nielsen 
H(5), Johansen AR(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India.
(2)Research Group for Genomic Epidemiology, National Food Institute, Technical 
University of Denmark, Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(3)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Enzyme Research, Novozymes A/S, Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(5)Department of Health Technology, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby 
2800, Denmark.
(6)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(7)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, 
USA.

MOTIVATION: Solubility and expression levels of proteins can be a limiting 
factor for large-scale studies and industrial production. By determining the 
solubility and expression directly from the protein sequence, the success rate 
of wet-lab experiments can be increased.
RESULTS: In this study, we focus on predicting the solubility and usability for 
purification of proteins expressed in Escherichia coli directly from the 
sequence. Our model NetSolP is based on deep learning protein language models 
called transformers and we show that it achieves state-of-the-art performance 
and improves extrapolation across datasets. As we find current methods are built 
on biased datasets, we curate existing datasets by using strict 
sequence-identity partitioning and ensure that there is minimal bias in the 
sequences.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The predictor and data are available at 
https://services.healthtech.dtu.dk/service.php?NetSolP and the open-sourced code 
is available at https://github.com/tvinet/NetSolP-1.0.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btab801
PMID: 35088833


1068. Methods Mol Biol. 2007;363:1-19. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-209-0_1.

A generic method for the production of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli 
using a dual hexahistidine-maltose-binding protein affinity tag.

Tropea JE(1), Cherry S, Nallamsetty S, Bignon C, Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Protein Engineering Section, Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute--Frederick, MD, USA.

A generic protocol that utilizes a dual hexahistidine-maltose-binding protein 
(His6-MBP) affinity tag has been developed for the production of recombinant 
proteins in Escherichia coli. The MBP moiety improves the yield and enhances the 
solubility of the passenger protein while the His-tag facilitates its 
purification. The fusion protein (His6-MBP-passenger) is purified by immobilized 
metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) 
resin and then cleaved in vitro with His6-tobacco etch virus protease to 
separate the His6-MBP from the passenger protein. In the final step, the 
unwanted byproducts of the digest are absorbed by a second round of IMAC, 
leaving nothing but the pure passenger protein in the flow-through fraction. 
Endogenous proteins that bind to the Ni-NTA resin during the first IMAC step 
also do so during the second round of IMAC. Hence, the application of two 
successive IMAC steps, rather than just one, is the key to obtaining 
crystallization-grade protein with a single affinity technique.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-209-0_1
PMID: 17272834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Microb Cell Fact. 2014 Aug 19;13:99. doi: 10.1186/s12934-014-0099-y.

Production of the short peptide surfactant DAMP4 from glucose or sucrose in high 
cell density cultures of Escherichia coli BL21(DE3).

Bruschi M, Krömer JO(1), Steen JA, Nielsen LK.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Microbial Electrosynthesis (CEMES), Advanced Water Management 
Centre (AWMC), Research Road (Bldg 60), The University of Queensland, St, Lucia 
4072, QLD, Australia. j.kromer@uq.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Peptides are increasingly used in industry as highly functional 
materials. Bacterial production of recombinant peptides has the potential to 
provide large amounts of renewable and low cost peptides, however, achieving 
high product titers from Chemically Defined Media (CDM) supplemented with simple 
sugars remains challenging.
RESULTS: In this work, the short peptide surfactant, DAMP4, was used as a model 
peptide to investigate production in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), a classical 
strain used for protein production. Under the same fermentation conditions, 
switching production of DAMP4 from rich complex media to CDM resulted in a 
reduction in yield that could be attributed to the reduction in final cell 
density more so than a significant reduction in specific productivity. To 
maximize product titer, cell density at induction was maximized using a 
fed-batch approach. In fed-batch DAMP4 product titer increased 9-fold compared 
to batch, while maintaining 60% specific productivity. Under the fed-batch 
conditions, the final product titer of DAMP4 reached more than 7 g/L which is 
the highest titer of DAMP4 reported to date. To investigate production from 
sucrose, sucrose metabolism was engineered into BL21(DE3) using a simple plasmid 
approach. Using this strain, growth and DAMP4 production characteristics 
obtained from CDM supplemented with sucrose were similar to those obtained when 
culturing the parent strain on CDM supplemented with glucose.
CONCLUSIONS: Production of a model peptide was increased to several grams per 
liter using a CDM medium with either glucose or sucrose feedstock. It is hoped 
that this work will contribute cost reduction for production of designer peptide 
surfactants to facilitate their commercial application.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-014-0099-y
PMCID: PMC4229601
PMID: 25134850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Bioengineering (Basel). 2019 Mar 28;6(2):29. doi: 10.3390/bioengineering6020029.

QbD Based Media Development for the Production of Fab Fragments in E. coli.

Kumar D(1), Batra J(2), Komives C(3), Rathore AS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hauz Khas 
110016, India. dpakk10@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hauz Khas 
110016, India. batrajyoti123@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biomedical, Chemical and Materials Engineering, San Jose State 
University, San Jose, CA 95192, USA. claire.komives@sjsu.edu.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hauz Khas 
110016, India. asrathore@biotechcmz.com.

Ranibizumab is a biotherapeutic Fab fragment used for the treatment of 
age-related macular degeneration and macular oedema. It is currently expressed 
in the gram-negative bacterium, Escherichia coli. However, low expression levels 
result in a high manufacturing cost. The protein expression can be increased by 
manipulating nutritional requirements (carbon source, nitrogen source, buffering 
agent), process parameters (pH, inducer concentration, agitation, temperature), 
and the genetic make-up of the producing strain. Further, understanding the 
impact of these factors on product quality is a requirement as per the 
principles of Quality by Design (QbD). In this paper, we examine the effect of 
various media components and process parameters on the expression level and 
quality of the biotherapeutic. First, risk analysis was performed to shortlist 
different media components based on the literature. Next, experiments were 
performed to screen these components. Eight components were identified for 
further investigation and were examined for their effect and interactions using 
a Fractional Factorial experimental design. Sucrose, biotin, and pantothenate 
were found to have the maximum effect during Fab production. Furthermore, 
cyanocobalamin glutathione and biotin-glutathione were the most significant 
interactions observed. Product identification was performed with Liquid 
Chromatography⁻Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS), the expression level was quantified 
using Bio-layer Interferometry, Reverse Phase-HPLC, and SDS-PAGE, and product 
quality were measured by RP-HPLC. Overall, a five-fold enhancement of the target 
protein titer was obtained (from 5 mg/L to 25 mg/L) using the screened medium 
components vis-a-vis the basal medium, thereby demonstrating the efficacy of the 
systematic approach purported by QbD.

DOI: 10.3390/bioengineering6020029
PMCID: PMC6631317
PMID: 30925730

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1071. J Gen Virol. 2005 Sep;86(Pt 9):2481-2488. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.81006-0.

Yeast system as a model to study Moloney murine leukemia virus integrase: 
expression, mutagenesis and search for eukaryotic partners.

Vera J(1), Parissi V(2)(3), García A(1), Zúñiga R(1), Andreola ML(2)(3), 
Caumont-Sarcos A(2)(3), Tarrago-Litvak L(2)(3), Leon O(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Virologia, ICBM, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, 
Independencia 1027, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Bordeaux, F-33000 France; IFR 66 'Pathologies Infectieuses et Cancers', 
Bordeaux, F-33000 France. 146 rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux cedex, France.
(3)CNRS UMR 5097, Bordeaux, F-33000 France; Université Victor Segalen Bordeaux 
2, Bordeaux, F-33000 France. 146 rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux cedex, France.

Moloney murine leukemia virus (M-MuLV) integrase (IN) catalyses the insertion of 
the viral genome into the host chromosomal DNA. The limited solubility of the 
recombinant protein produced in Escherichia coli led the authors to explore the 
use of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for expression of M-MuLV IN. IN was expressed in 
yeast and purified by chromatography on nickel-NTA agarose. IN migrated as a 
single band in SDS-PAGE and did not contain IN degradation products. The enzyme 
was about twofold more active than the enzyme purified from E. coli and was free 
of nucleases. Using the yeast system, the substitution of the putative catalytic 
amino acid Asp184 by alanine was also analysed. The mutated enzyme was inactive 
in the in vitro assays. This is the first direct demonstration that mutation of 
Asp184 inactivates M-MuLV IN. Finally, S. cerevisiae was used as a model to 
assess the ability of M-MuLV IN to interact with eukaryotic protein partners. 
The expression of an active M-MuLV IN in yeast strains deficient in RAD52 
induced a lethal effect. This phenotype could be attributed to cellular damage, 
as suggested by the viability of cells expressing inactive D184A IN. 
Furthermore, when active IN was expressed in a yeast strain lacking the ySNF5 
transcription factor, the lethal effect was abolished, suggesting the 
involvement of ySNF5 in the cellular damage induced by IN. These results 
indicate that S. cerevisiae could be a useful model to study the interaction of 
IN with cellular components in order to identify potential counterparts of the 
natural host.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.81006-0
PMID: 16099906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2011 May;77(10):3451-60. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02186-10. Epub 
2011 Mar 25.

High-yield resveratrol production in engineered Escherichia coli.

Lim CG(1), Fowler ZL, Hueller T, Schaffer S, Koffas MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University at Buffalo, The 
State University of New York, Buffalo, NY 14260, USA.

Plant polyphenols have been the subject of several recent scientific 
investigations since many of the molecules in this class have been found to be 
highly active in the human body, with a plethora of health-promoting activities 
against a variety of diseases, including heart disease, diabetes, and cancer, 
and with even the potential to slow aging. Further development of these potent 
natural therapeutics hinges on the formation of robust industrial production 
platforms designed using specifically selected as well as engineered protein 
sources along with the construction of optimal expression platforms. In this 
work, we first report the investigation of various stilbene synthases from an 
array of plant species considering structure-activity relationships, their 
expression efficiency in microorganisms, and their ability to synthesize 
resveratrol. Second, we looked into the construct environment of recombinantly 
expressed stilbene synthases, including different promoters, construct designs, 
and host strains, to create an Escherichia coli strain capable of producing 
superior resveratrol titers sufficient for commercial usage. Further improvement 
of metabolic capabilities of the recombinant strain aimed at improving the 
intracellular malonyl-coenzyme A pool, a resveratrol precursor, resulted in a 
final improved titer of 2.3 g/liter resveratrol.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02186-10
PMCID: PMC3126431
PMID: 21441338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Jan;81(1):33-41. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.08.030. Epub 
2011 Sep 8.

A screening strategy for heterologous protein expression in Escherichia coli 
with the highest return of investment.

Pacheco B(1), Crombet L(1), Loppnau P(1), Cossar D(2).

Author information:
(1)Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Toronto, MaRS South Tower, 
Suite 700, 101 College St., Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Toronto, MaRS South Tower, 
Suite 700, 101 College St., Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic address: 
doug.cossar@utoronto.ca.

Heterologous protein expression in Escherichia coli is commonly used to obtain 
recombinant proteins for a variety of downstream applications. However, many 
proteins are not, or are only poorly, expressed in soluble form. High level 
expression often leads to the formation of inclusion bodies and an inactive 
product that needs to be refolded. By screening the solubility pattern for a set 
of 71 target proteins in different host-strains and varying parameters such as 
location of purification tag, promoter and induction temperature we propose a 
protocol with a success rate of 77% of clones returning a soluble protein. This 
protocol is particularly suitable for high-throughput screening with the goal to 
obtain soluble protein product for e.g. structure determination.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.08.030
PMID: 21925270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2006 Aug;5(8):1471-83. doi: 10.1074/mcp.M600048-MCP200. 
Epub 2006 May 29.

Proteomics-based validation of genomic data: applications in colorectal cancer 
diagnosis.

Madoz-Gúrpide J(1), López-Serra P, Martínez-Torrecuadrada JL, Sánchez L, 
Lombardía L, Casal JI.

Author information:
(1)Protein Technology, Biotechnology Programme, Centro Nacional de 
Investigaciones Oncológicas (CNIO), 28029 Madrid, Spain.

Multiple factors are involved in the translation of functional genomic results 
into proteins for proteome research and target validation on tumoral tissues. In 
this report, genes were selected by using DNA microarrays on a panel of 
colorectal cancer (CRC) paired samples. A large number of up-regulated genes in 
colorectal cancer patients were investigated for cellular location, and those 
corresponding to membrane or extracellular proteins were used for a non-biased 
expression in Escherichia coli. We investigated different sources of cDNA clones 
for protein expression as well as the influence of the protein size and the 
different tags with respect to protein expression levels and solubility in E. 
coli. From 29 selected genes, 21 distinct proteins were finally expressed as 
soluble proteins with, at least, one different fusion protein. In addition, 
seven of these potential markers (ANXA3, BMP4, LCN2, SPARC, SPP1, MMP7, and 
MMP11) were tested for antibody production and/or validation. Six of the seven 
proteins (all except SPP1) were confirmed to be overexpressed in colorectal 
tumoral tissues by using immunoblotting and tissue microarray analysis. Although 
none of them could be associated to early stages of the tumor, two of them (LCN2 
and MMP11) were clearly overexpressed in late Dukes' stages (B and C). This 
proteomic study reveals novel clues for the assembly of a robust and highly 
efficient high throughput system for the validation of genomic data. Moreover it 
illustrates the different difficulties and bottlenecks encountered for 
performing a quick conversion of genomic results into clinically useful 
proteins.

DOI: 10.1074/mcp.M600048-MCP200
PMID: 16733264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Microb Cell Fact. 2013 Nov 9;12:103. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-103.

Engineering NAD+ availability for Escherichia coli whole-cell biocatalysis: a 
case study for dihydroxyacetone production.

Zhou YJ, Yang W, Wang L, Zhu Z, Zhang S, Zhao ZK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, CAS, Dalian 
116023, China. zhaozb@dicp.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Whole-cell redox biocatalysis has been intensively explored for the 
production of valuable compounds because excellent selectivity is routinely 
achieved. Although the cellular cofactor level, redox state and the 
corresponding enzymatic activity are expected to have major effects on the 
performance of the biocatalysts, our ability remains limited to predict the 
outcome upon variation of those factors as well as the relationship among them.
RESULTS: In order to investigate the effects of cofactor availability on 
whole-cell redox biocatalysis, we devised recombinant Escherichia coli strains 
for the production of dihydroxyacetone (DHA) catalyzed by the NAD+-dependent 
glycerol dehydrogenase (GldA). In this model system, a water-forming NAD+ 
oxidase (NOX) and a NAD+ transporter (NTT4) were also co-expressed for cofactor 
regeneration and extracellular NAD+ uptake, respectively. We found that cellular 
cofactor level, NAD+/NADH ratio and NOX activity were not only strain-dependent, 
but also growth condition-dependent, leading to significant differences in 
specific DHA titer among different whole-cell biocatalysts. The host E. coli 
DH5α had the highest DHA specific titer of 0.81 g/gDCW with the highest 
NAD+/NADH ratio of 6.7 and NOX activity of 3900 U. The biocatalyst had a higher 
activity when induced with IPTG at 37°C for 8 h compared with those at 30°C for 
8 h and 18 h. When cells were transformed with the ntt4 gene, feeding NAD+ 
during the cell culture stage increased cellular NAD(H) level by 1.44 fold and 
DHA specific titer by 1.58 fold to 2.13 g/gDCW. Supplementing NAD+ during the 
biotransformation stage was also beneficial to cellular NAD(H) level and DHA 
production, and the highest DHA productivity reached 0.76 g/gDCW/h. Cellular 
NAD(H) level, NAD+/NADH ratio, and NOX and GldA activity dropped over time 
during the biotransformation process.
CONCLUSIONS: High NAD+/NADH ratio driving by NOX was very important for DHA 
production. Once cofactor was efficiently cycled, high cellular NAD(H) level was 
also beneficial for whole-cell redox biocatalysis. Our results indicated that 
NAD+ transporter could be applied to manipulate redox cofactor level for 
biocatalysis. Moreover, we suggested that genetically designed redox 
transformation should be carefully profiled for further optimizing whole-cell 
biocatalysis.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-12-103
PMCID: PMC3831814
PMID: 24209782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2005 Apr 20;90(2):239-47. doi: 10.1002/bit.20433.

Solubility and proteolysis of the Zb-MalE and Zb-MalE31 proteins during 
overproduction in Escherichia coli.

Sandén AM(1), Boström M, Markland K, Larsson G.

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Centre for Bioprocess Technology, AlbaNova University Center, 
SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.

From the hypothesis that the rate of expression of a nascent polypeptide 
controls the accumulation of soluble full-length protein, accumulation of the 
model fusion proteins Zb-MalE and Zb-MalE31, were studied. MalE and MalE31 are 
two isoforms of the maltose binding protein, differing only in two consecutive 
amino acids. Parameters controlling the expression rate were the transcription 
rate, which was controlled by IPTG induction of the lacUV5 promoter and the 
substrate addition levels during fed-batch cultivation. Results show that the 
two product proteins appear in both soluble and insoluble fractions during 
cultivation and are both subjected to proteolysis. However, the accumulation of 
the soluble form of Zb-MalE31 protein is radically lower, at all conditions, due 
to the small difference in primary structure. It was shown that both proteolysis 
and inclusion body formation could be influenced by the selected parameters 
although a change in feed rate had a considerably higher effect. A high 
concentration of inducer and a "high" feed rate result in a low accumulation of 
soluble product, due to a high proteolysis. The concentration of inducer leading 
to different levels of transcription is, however, an efficient tool to influence 
inclusion body formation. At low IPTG concentrations (< or = 5 microM), this 
formation is almost abolished while at a comparatively high concentration (> or 
= 300 microM) 50% of the total product accumulated was in the form of inclusion 
bodies.

Copyright 2005 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.20433
PMID: 15739172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. J Control Release. 2018 May 10;277:154-164. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.03.015. 
Epub 2018 Mar 15.

Fusion of fibroblast growth factor 21 to a thermally responsive biopolymer forms 
an injectable depot with sustained anti-diabetic action.

Gilroy CA(1), Roberts S(1), Chilkoti A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Pratt School of Engineering, Duke 
University, 101 Science Dr., Campus Box 90281, Durham, NC 27708, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Pratt School of Engineering, Duke 
University, 101 Science Dr., Campus Box 90281, Durham, NC 27708, USA. Electronic 
address: chilkoti@duke.edu.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is under investigation as a type 2 diabetes 
protein drug, but its efficacy is impeded by rapid in vivo clearance and by 
costly production methods. To improve the protein's therapeutic utility, we 
recombinantly expressed FGF21 as a fusion with an elastin-like polypeptide 
(ELP), a peptide polymer that exhibits reversible thermal phase behavior. Below 
a critical temperature, ELPs exist as miscible unimers, while above, they 
associate into a coacervate. The thermal responsiveness of ELPs is retained upon 
fusion to proteins, which has notable consequences for the production and in 
vivo delivery of FGF21. First, the ELP acts as a solubility enhancer during E. 
coli expression, yielding active fusion protein from the soluble cell lysate 
fraction and eliminating the protein refolding steps that are required for 
purification of FGF21 from inclusion bodies. Second, the ELP's phase transition 
behavior is exploited for facile chromatography-free purification of the 
ELP-FGF21 fusion. Third, the composition and molecular weight of the ELP are 
designed such that the ELP-FGF21 fusion undergoes a phase transition triggered 
solely by body heat, resulting in an immiscible viscous phase upon subcutaneous 
(s.c.) injection and thereby creating an injectable depot. Indeed, a single s.c. 
injection of ELP-FGF21 affords up to five days of sustained glycemic control in 
ob/ob mice. The ELP fusion partner massively streamlines production and 
purification of FGF21, while providing a controlled release method for delivery 
that reduces the frequency of injection, thereby enhancing the pharmacological 
properties of FGF21 as a protein drug to treat metabolic disease.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.03.015
PMCID: PMC5945213
PMID: 29551712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest. A.C. is a scientific 
advisor and serves on the board of directors for PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 
which has licensed the ELP technology for drug delivery applications from Duke 
University.


1078. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2012 Mar;11(3):O111.009613. doi: 10.1074/mcp.O111.009613. 
Epub 2011 Sep 30.

A Protein Epitope Signature Tag (PrEST) library allows SILAC-based absolute 
quantification and multiplexed determination of protein copy numbers in cell 
lines.

Zeiler M(1), Straube WL, Lundberg E, Uhlen M, Mann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Proteomics and Signal Transduction, Max-Planck Institute of 
Biochemistry, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Mass spectrometry-based proteomics increasingly relies on relative or absolute 
quantification. In relative quantification, stable isotope based methods often 
allow mixing at early stages of sample preparation, whereas for absolute 
quantification this has generally required recombinant expression of full 
length, labeled protein standards. Here we make use of a very large library of 
Protein Epitope Signature Tags (PrESTs) that has been developed in the course of 
the Human Protein Atlas Project. These PrESTs are expressed recombinantly in E. 
coli and they consist of a short and unique region of the protein of interest as 
well as purification and solubility tags. We first quantify a highly purified, 
stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-labeled version 
of the solubility tag and use it determine the precise amount of each PrEST by 
its SILAC ratios. The PrESTs are then spiked into cell lysates and the SILAC 
ratios of PrEST peptides to peptides from endogenous target proteins yield their 
cellular quantities. The procedure can readily be multiplexed, as we demonstrate 
by simultaneously determining the copy number of 40 proteins in HeLa cells. 
Among the proteins analyzed, the cytoskeletal protein vimentin was found to be 
most abundant with 20 million copies per cell, while the transcription factor 
and oncogene FOS only had 6000 copies. Direct quantification of the absolute 
amount of single proteins is possible via a SILAC experiment in which labeled 
cell lysate is mixed both with the heavy labeled solubility tag and with the 
corresponding PrEST. The SILAC-PrEST combination allows accurate and streamlined 
quantification of the absolute or relative amount of proteins of interest in a 
wide variety of applications.

DOI: 10.1074/mcp.O111.009613
PMCID: PMC3316735
PMID: 21964433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2011 Aug;29(4):241-6.

[Cloning, expression and immunologic identification of C31B8.8 gene of 
Caenorhabditis elegans].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun R(1), Li ZY, He HJ, Lv ZY, Wu ZD.

Author information:
(1)Deparntment of Parasitology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou 510080, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone and express C31B8.8 gene of wild-type Caenorhabditis 
elegans, and study the immunological characteristic of the recombinant protein.
METHODS: Total RNA was extracted from cultivated C. elegans and reversely 
transcribed into cDNA. C31B8.8 gene was amplified by PCR and cloned into pMD-18T 
vector for sequencing. The accurate sequence was subcloned into the expression 
vector pET-30a with (His) 6-tag. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into E. 
coli BL21 and followed by expression of the protein induced by IPTG. The 
recombinant protein was identified by using matrix-assisted laser desorption 
ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and Western blotting 
10 BALB/c mice were randomly divided into C31B.8-immunized group and PBS + 
adjuvant group Mice in C31B8.8-immunized group were immunized with 40 microg of 
purified C31B8.8 antigen formulated in Freund's adjuvant Mice in PBS + adjuvant 
group received only adjuvant emulsified with PBS. All the mice received four 
immunizations every week with the same dose of antigen. Serum samples were 
collected at pre-immunization and certain time after immunization and the 
antibody titer was analyzed by ELISA. The recombinant C31B8.8 protein and 
soluble components of Angiostrongylus cantonensis fourth-stage larvae were 
identified by Western blotting.
RESULTS: The constructed recombinant plasmids were identified by enzyme 
digestion and DNA sequencing. MALDI-TOF-MS and Western blotting analysis showed 
that the recombinant C31B8.8 protein was the target protein. Compared with PBS + 
adjuvant group, mice immunized with purified protein C31B8.8 produced higher 
level of IgG. The anti-C31B8.8 serum recognized recombinant C31B8.8 protein, and 
reacted with soluble antigens of A. cantonensis fourth-stage larvae.
CONCLUSION: C elegans C31B8 gene shows certain immunogenicity and 
immunoreactivity, and the soluble antigens of A. cantonensis fourth-stage larvae 
can react with anti-C31B8.8 serum.

PMID: 21972593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2003 Jun;67(6):1368-75. doi: 10.1271/bbb.67.1368.

Preparation and characterization of recombinant murine p65/L-plastin expressed 
in Escherichia coli and high-titer antibodies against the protein.

Shinomiya H(1), Nagai K, Hirata H, Kobayashi N, Hasegawa H, Liu F, Sumita K, 
Asano Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Host Defenses, Ehime University School of 
Medicine, Ehime 791-0295, Japan. hiroto@m.ehime-u.ac.jp

We previously identified a 65-kDa protein (p65) that was phosphorylated in 
activated macrophages. It has turned out to be a murine homologue of human 
L-plastin, which was identified as a novel protein in human cancer cells. 
p65/L-plastin is characterized by a series of Ca(2+)-, calmodulin-, and 
actin-binding domains, and is thought to play a crucial role in leukocytes and 
cancer cells. We have expressed a recombinant (r) p65/L-plastin in Escherichia 
coli that binds to beta-actin and prepared high-titer antibodies using large 
amounts of the protein as immunogen. Anti-rp65/L-plastin antibodies recognize 
native p65/L-plastin as well as rp65/L-plastin and have enabled us to detect the 
fine structures of intracellular p65/L-plastin, and it was found that its 
localization was extensively changed by stimulation with bacterial components. 
We further developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay system and a flow 
cytometry method using these reagents, which made it possible to measure 
antibodies, including autoantibodies, against p65/L-plastin and to evaluate the 
maturation-dependent expression of the protein in leukocytes.

DOI: 10.1271/bbb.67.1368
PMID: 12843666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. Methods Mol Biol. 2010;643:121-32. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60761-723-5_9.

Producing a recombinant flavin-containing monooxygenase from Coffea arabica in 
Escherichia coli for screening of potential natural substrates.

Cesarino I(1), Mazzafera P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Institute of Biology, State University of 
Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.

Only few biological functions have been related with flavin-containing 
monooxygenases (FMOs) in plants, such as specific roles in auxin biosynthesis, 
pathogen defense, and metabolism of glucosinolates. Biochemical characterization 
using recombinant proteins is a promising approach to determine the precise 
specificity of plant FMOs for potential natural substrates. FMOs may be very 
difficult to express in a soluble form due to their highly hydrophobic nature 
and this can be improved by fusing them to solubility-enhancing proteins, such 
as maltose-binding protein (MBP) and N-utilization substance A (NusA). Here we 
describe the expression of a recombinant FMO from Coffea arabica as a 
maltose-binding protein fusion in Escherichia coli and its purification by 
affinity chromatography, producing a ready-to-use protein for enzymatic activity 
assays.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60761-723-5_9
PMID: 20552448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Jun 29;18(7):1395. doi: 10.3390/ijms18071395.

Rational Design of Recombinant Papain-Like Cysteine Protease: Optimal Domain 
Structure and Expression Conditions for Wheat-Derived Enzyme Triticain-α.

Gorokhovets NV(1), Makarov VA(2), Petushkova AI(3)(4), Prokopets OS(5), Rubtsov 
MA(6)(7)(8), Savvateeva LV(9), Zernii EY(10), Zamyatnin AA Jr(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University, Trubetskaya str., 8, bld. 2, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
gorokhovets@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University, Trubetskaya str., 8, bld. 2, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
known.sir@yandex.ru.
(3)Lomonosov Moscow State University, Faculty of Biology, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
asyapeti@gmail.com.
(4)International Associated Laboratory (LIA) 1066 French-Russian Joint Cancer 
Research Laboratory, Villejuif 94805, France. asyapeti@gmail.com.
(5)Institut für Pharmakologie and Klinische Pharmazie, Philipps-Universität 
Marburg, Marburg D-35043, Germany. olga.prokopets@pharmazie.uni-marburg.de.
(6)Lomonosov Moscow State University, Faculty of Biology, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
ma_rubtsov@mail.ru.
(7)International Associated Laboratory (LIA) 1066 French-Russian Joint Cancer 
Research Laboratory, Villejuif 94805, France. ma_rubtsov@mail.ru.
(8)Department of Biological Chemistry, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University, Trubetskaya str., 8, bld. 2, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
ma_rubtsov@mail.ru.
(9)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University, Trubetskaya str., 8, bld. 2, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
ludmilaslv@yandex.ru.
(10)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Moscow 119992, Russia. zerni@mail.ru.
(11)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical 
University, Trubetskaya str., 8, bld. 2, Moscow 119991, Russia. 
zamyat@belozersky.msu.ru.
(12)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Moscow 119992, Russia. zamyat@belozersky.msu.ru.

Triticain-α is a papain-like cysteine protease from wheat (Triticumaestivum L.) 
that possesses activity towards toxic gluten-derived peptides, and was thus 
proposed as a novel therapeutic tool for celiac disease. We report an original 
approach employing rational design of domain architecture of Triticain-α and 
selection of the appropriate expression system for development of cheap and 
efficient protocol yielding active recombinant enzyme. The segregated catalytic 
domain of Triticain-α did not adopt native structure in bacteria, neither being 
expressed as a single protein nor upon conjugation or co-expression with 
extrinsic chaperones. Meanwhile, its attachment to prodomain of the enzyme 
resulted in generation of insoluble (inclusion bodies) product that can be 
transformed into active protease upon refolding in vitro. The estimated yield of 
the product was affected by affinity six-histidine tag required for its 
single-step purification with the preferable N-terminal position of the tag. 
Expression of the two-domain Triticain-α construct in yeast (Pichiapastoris) 
strain GS115 and bacterial (Escherichia coli) strain Rosetta gami B (DE3) led to 
the accumulation of a soluble protein, which underwent autocatalytic maturation 
during expression (in yeast)/purification (in bacteria) procedures and exhibited 
pronounced protease activity. Furthermore, expression and solubility of such 
construct in Rosetta gami B (DE3) cells was improved by reducing the temperature 
of the bacterial growth yielding more active enzyme than yeast counterpart 
presumably due to facilitated formation of a characteristic disulfide bond 
critical for maintaining the catalytic site. We suggest that these findings are 
helpful for obtaining active Triticain-α preparations for scientific or medical 
applications, and can be employed for the design and production of beneficial 
recombinant products based on other papain-like cysteine proteases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18071395
PMCID: PMC5535888
PMID: 28661426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1083. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2011 Mar;32(3):329-37. doi: 10.1038/aps.2010.209. Epub 2011 
Jan 31.

Generation and characterization of the human neutralizing antibody fragment 
Fab091 against rabies virus.

Li C(1), Zhang F, Lin H, Wang ZC, Liu XJ, Feng ZQ, Zhu J, Guan XH.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Antibody Technique of Ministry of Health, Nanjing Medical 
University, China.

AIM: To transform the human anti-rabies virus glycoprotein (anti-RABVG) 
single-chain variable fragment (scFv) into a Fab fragment and to analyze its 
immunological activity.
METHODS: The Fab gene was amplified using overlap PCR and inserted into the 
vector pComb3XSS. The recombinant vector was then transformed into E coli 
Top10F' for expression and purification. The purified Fab was characterized 
using SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, indirect ELISA, competitive ELISA, and the 
fluorescent antibody virus neutralization test (FAVN), respectively, and 
examined in a Kunming mouse challenge model in vivo.
RESULTS: A recombinant vector was constructed. The Fab was expressed in soluble 
form in E coli Top10F'. Specific binding of the Fab to rabies virus was 
confirmed by indirect ELISA and immunoprecipitation (IP). The neutralizing 
antibody titer of Fab was 10.26 IU/mL. The mouse group treated with both vaccine 
and human rabies immunoglobulin (HRIG)/Fab091 (32 IU/kg) showed protection 
against rabies, compared with the control group (P<0.05, Logrank test).
CONCLUSION: The antibody fragment Fab was shown to be a neutralizing antibody 
against RABVG. It can be used together with other monoclonal antibodies for 
post-exposure prophylaxis of rabies virus in future studies.

DOI: 10.1038/aps.2010.209
PMCID: PMC4002766
PMID: 21278782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. J Agric Food Chem. 2021 Jan 13;69(1):267-274. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c07143. 
Epub 2020 Dec 24.

Biosynthesis of a Novel Bioactive Metabolite of Spermidine from Bacillus 
amyloliquefaciens: Gene Mining, Sequence Analysis, and Combined Expression.

Zou D(1), Li L(2), Min Y(1), Ji A(1), Liu Y(3), Wei X(1), Wang J(3), Wen Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Environment Correlative Dietology (Ministry of Education), 
College of Food Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 
430070, China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Agricultural Products Processing, Sericultural & 
Agri-Food Research Institute, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Guangzhou 510610, China.
(3)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health, 
Beijing Technology and Business University (BTBU), Beijing 100048, China.
(4)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Iowa State University, Ames, 
Iowa 50011, United States.

Spermidine is a biologically active polyamine with extensive application 
potential in functional foods. However, previously reported spermidine titers by 
biosynthesis methods are relatively low, which hinders its industrial 
application. To improve the spermidine titer, key genes affecting the spermidine 
production were mined to modify Bacillus amyloliquefaciens. Genes of 
S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (speD) and spermidine synthase (speE) from 
different microorganisms were expressed and compared in B. amyloliquefaciens. 
Therein, the speD from Escherichia coli and speE from Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
were confirmed to be optimal for spermidine synthesis, respectively. Gene and 
amino acid sequence analysis further confirmed the function of speD and speE. 
Then, these two genes were co-expressed to generate a recombinant strain B. 
amyloliquefaciens HSAM2(PDspeD-SspeE) with a spermidine titer of 105.2 mg/L, 
improving by 11.0-fold compared with the control (HSAM2). Through optimization 
of the fermentation medium, the spermidine titer was increased to 227.4 mg/L, 
which was the highest titer among present reports. Moreover, the consumption of 
the substrate S-adenosylmethionine was consistent with the accumulation of 
spermidine, which contributed to understanding its synthesis pattern. In 
conclusion, two critical genes for spermidine synthesis were obtained, and an 
engineering B. amyloliquefaciens strain was constructed for enhanced spermidine 
production.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c07143
PMID: 33356220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2010 Sep;88(1):187-97. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-010-2696-y. Epub 2010 Jun 10.

Mutations in maltose-binding protein that alter affinity and solubility 
properties.

Walker IH(1), Hsieh PC, Riggs PD.

Author information:
(1)New England Biolabs, 240 County Rd, Ipswich, MA 01938-2723, USA.

Maltose-binding protein (MBP) from Escherichia coli has been shown to be a good 
substrate for protein engineering leading to altered binding (Marvin and 
Hellinga, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 98:4955-4960, 2001a) and increased affinity 
(Marvin and Hellinga, Nat Struct Biol 8:795-798, 2001b; Telmer and Shilton, J 
Biol Chem 278:34555-34567, 2003). It is also used in recombinant protein 
expression as both an affinity tag and a solubility tag. We isolated mutations 
in MBP that enhance binding to maltodextrins 1.3 to 15-fold, using random 
mutagenesis followed by screening for enhanced yield in a microplate-based 
affinity purification. We tested the mutations for their ability to enhance the 
yield of a fusion protein that binds poorly to immobilized amylose and their 
ability to enhance the solubility of one or more aggregation-prone recombinant 
proteins. We also measured dissociation constants of the mutant MBPs that retain 
the solubility-enhancing properties of MBP and combined two of the mutations to 
produce an MBP with a dissociation constant 10-fold tighter than wild-type MBP. 
Some of the mutations we obtained can be rationalized based on the previous 
work, while others indicate new ways in which the function of MBP can be 
modified.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-010-2696-y
PMCID: PMC2940430
PMID: 20535468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Biochemistry. 2004 Nov 2;43(43):13724-38. doi: 10.1021/bi049014y.

Expression, purification, and biochemical characterization of the 
antiinflammatory tristetraprolin: a zinc-dependent mRNA binding protein affected 
by posttranslational modifications.

Cao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, National Institute of Environmental Health 
Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human 
Services, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. cao2@niehs.nih.gov

Tristetraprolin (TTP) is a hyperphosphorylated protein that destabilizes mRNA by 
binding to an AU-rich element (ARE). Mice deficient in TTP develop a severe 
inflammatory syndrome. The biochemical properties of TTP have not been 
adequately characterized, due to the difficulties in protein purification and 
lack of a high-titer antiserum. Full-length human TTP was expressed in human 
HEK293 cells and purified to at least 70% homogeneity. The purified protein was 
free of endogenous ARE binding activity, and was used for investigating its 
size, zinc dependency, and binding kinetics for tumor necrosis factor alpha mRNA 
ARE. A high-titer rabbit antiserum was raised against the MBP-hTTP fusion 
protein expressed in Escherichia coli. Cellular localization studies of the 
transfected cells indicated that approximately 80% of the expressed TTP was in 
the cytosol, with 20% in the nuclei. TTP from both locations bound to the ARE 
and formed similar complexes. The purified TTP was shown to be intact by 
N-terminal His-tag purification, C-terminal peptide sequencing, and mass 
spectrometry analysis. Results from size exclusion chromatography are consistent 
with the predominant form of active TTP being a tetramer. TTP's ARE binding 
activity was increased by 10 microM Zn(2+). The half-maximal binding of TTP from 
HEK293 cells was approximately 30 nM in assays containing 10 nM ARE. This value 
was about twice that of TTP from E. coli. TTP from HEK293 cells was highly 
phosphorylated, and its electrophoretic mobility was increased by alkaline 
phosphatase treatment and somewhat by T271A mutation, but not by PNGase F or 
S186A mutation. The gel mobility of TTP from E. coli was decreased by in vitro 
phosphorylation with p42/ERK2 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases. These 
results suggest that TTP's zinc-dependent ARE binding affinity is reduced by 
half by posttranslational modifications, mainly by phosphorylation but not by 
glycosylation, in mammalian cells. The results support a model in which each 
subunit of the TTP tetramer binds to one of the five overlapping UUAUUUAUU 
sequences of the ARE, resulting in a stable TTP-ARE complex.

DOI: 10.1021/bi049014y
PMCID: PMC1351390
PMID: 15504035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2017 Jun 30;7:290. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00290. 
eCollection 2017.

A Novel Chimeric Endolysin with Antibacterial Activity against 
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

Haddad Kashani H(1), Fahimi H(2), Dasteh Goli Y(3), Moniri R(1).

Author information:
(1)Anatomical Sciences Research Center, Kashan University of Medical 
SciencesKashan, Iran.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Sciences, Faculty of Advanced Sciences 
and Technology, Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch, Islamic Azad UniversityTehran, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, University of MarylandCollege Park, MD, United States.

Cysteine/histidine-dependent amidohydrolase/peptidase (CHAP) and amidase are 
known as catalytic domains of the bacteriophage-derived endolysin LysK and were 
previously reported to show lytic activity against methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). In the current study, the in silico design and 
analysis of chimeric CHAP-amidase model was applied to enhance the stability and 
solubility of protein, which was achieved through improving the properties of 
primary, secondary and tertiary structures. The coding gene sequence of the 
chimeric CHAP-amidase was synthesized and subcloned into the pET-22(+) 
expression vector, and the recombinant protein was expressed in E. coli BL21 
(DE3) strain. Subsequent affinity-based purification yielded ~12 mg soluble 
protein per liter of E. coli culture. Statistical analysis indicated that 
concentrations of ≥1 μg/mL of the purified protein have significant 
antibacterial activity against S. aureus MRSA252 cells. The engineered chimeric 
CHAP-amidase exhibited 3.2 log reduction of MRSA252 cell counts at the 
concentration of 10 μg/mL. A synergistic interaction between CHAP-amidase and 
vancomycin was detected by using checkerboard assay and calculating the 
fractional inhibitory concentration (FIC) index. This synergistic effect was 
shown by 8-fold reduction in the minimum inhibitory concentration of vancomycin. 
The chimeric CHAP-amidase displayed strong antibacterial activity against S. 
aureus, S. epidermidis, and enterococcus. However, it did not indicate any 
significant antibacterial activity against E. coli and Lactococcus lactis. Taken 
together, these findings suggest that our chimeric CHAP-amidase might represent 
potential to be used for the development of efficient antibacterial therapies 
targeting MRSA and certain Gram-positive bacteria.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00290
PMCID: PMC5491540
PMID: 28713777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Dec;152:92-106. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.07.007. Epub 
2018 Jul 20.

Systematic analysis of the expression, solubility and purification of a 
passenger protein in fusion with different tags.

Bernier SC(1), Cantin L(1), Salesse C(2).

Author information:
(1)CUO-Recherche, Centre de recherche du CHU de Québec and Département 
d'ophtalmologie, Faculté de médecine, Regroupement stratégique PROTEO, 
Université Laval, Québec, Québec, Canada.
(2)CUO-Recherche, Centre de recherche du CHU de Québec and Département 
d'ophtalmologie, Faculté de médecine, Regroupement stratégique PROTEO, 
Université Laval, Québec, Québec, Canada. Electronic address: 
christian.salesse@fmed.ulaval.ca.

Purification of recombinant proteins is often achieved using a purification tag 
which can be located either at the N- or C-terminus of a passenger protein of 
interest. Many purification tags exist and their advantages and limitations are 
well documented. However, designing fusion proteins can be a challenging task to 
get a fully expressed, soluble and highly purified passenger protein. Besides, 
there is a lack of systematic studies on the use of a single tag versus combined 
tags and on the effect of the position of the tags in the construct. In the 
present study, 9 different fusion proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli 
using some of the most commonly used purification tags: maltose-binding protein 
(MBP), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and polyHis tag. The expression and 
purification of N-terminus single-tagged fusion proteins (MBP, GST and polyHis) 
and fusion proteins with combined tags at different positions have been tested. 
Both the identity of the tag(s) and its position were found to have a strong 
effect on the expression, solubility and purification yields of the fusion 
proteins. Consequently, the different fusion proteins assayed have shown varying 
expression, solubility and purification yields, which were also dependent on the 
passenger protein. Therefore, there is a compelling need to design various 
fusion proteins with different single or combined tags to identify optimized 
constructions allowing to achieve high levels of expression, solubility and 
purification of the passenger protein.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.07.007
PMID: 30036588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2022 Jan;106(1):401-414. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-021-11701-4. Epub 2021 Dec 21.

Efficient production of immunologically active Shigella invasion plasmid 
antigens IpaB and IpaH using a cell-free expression system.

Kapoor N(1), Ndungo E(2), Pill L(3), Desalegn G(2), Berges A(3), Oaks EV(4), 
Fairman J(5), Pasetti MF(6).

Author information:
(1)Vaxcyte, Inc., 353 Hatch Dr, Foster City, CA, 94404, USA. 
neeraj.kapoor@vaxcyte.com.
(2)Center for Vaccine Development and Global Health, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, 685 W. Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD, 21201, USA.
(3)Vaxcyte, Inc., 353 Hatch Dr, Foster City, CA, 94404, USA.
(4)Patuxent Research and Consulting Group, Gambrills, MD, USA.
(5)Vaxcyte, Inc., 353 Hatch Dr, Foster City, CA, 94404, USA. 
jeff.fairman@vaxcyte.com.
(6)Center for Vaccine Development and Global Health, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, 685 W. Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD, 21201, USA. 
mpasetti@som.umaryland.edu.

Shigella spp. invade the colonic epithelium and cause bacillary dysentery in 
humans. Individuals living in areas that lack access to clean water and 
sanitation are the most affected. Even though infection can be treated with 
antibiotics, Shigella antimicrobial drug resistance complicates clinical 
management. Despite decades of effort, there are no licensed vaccines to prevent 
shigellosis. The highly conserved invasion plasmid antigens (Ipa), which are 
components of the Shigella type III secretion system, participate in bacterial 
epithelial cell invasion and have been pursued as vaccine targets. However, 
expression and purification of these proteins in conventional cell-based systems 
have been challenging due to solubility issues and extremely low recovery 
yields. These difficulties have impeded manufacturing and clinical advancement. 
In this study, we describe a new method to express Ipa proteins using the 
Xpress+TM cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) platform. Both IpaB and the 
C-terminal domain of IpaH1.4 (IpaH-CTD) were efficiently produced with this 
technology at yields > 200 mg/L. Furthermore, the expression was linearly scaled 
in a bioreactor under controlled conditions, and proteins were successfully 
purified using multimode column chromatography to > 95% purity as determined by 
SDS-PAGE. Biophysical characterization of the cell-free synthetized IpaB and 
IpaH-CTD using SEC-MALS analysis showed well-defined oligomeric states of the 
proteins in solution. Functional analysis revealed similar immunoreactivity as 
compared to antigens purified from E. coli. These results demonstrate the 
efficiency of CFPS for Shigella protein production; the practicality and 
scalability of this method will facilitate production of antigens for Shigella 
vaccine development and immunological analysis. KEY POINTS : • First report of 
Shigella IpaB and IpaH produced at high purity and yield using CFPS • CFPS-IpaB 
and IpaH perform similarly to E. coli-produced proteins in immunoassays • 
CFPS-IpaB and IpaH react with Shigella-specific human antibodies and are 
immunogenic in mice.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-021-11701-4
PMCID: PMC8688910
PMID: 34932164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


1090. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 May;27(5):539-41, 544.

[Preparation and identification of monoclonal antibody against human growth 
differentiation factor 15].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhan F(1), Zeng XY, Zhang X, Zhou S, Xu Y, Zhang JP, Jiao YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing 210011, China. chinazhanf@gmail.com

AIM: To prepare the monoclonal antibody (mAb) against human growth 
differentiation factor 15 (GDF15).
METHODS: The expression vector pGEX-4T-2-gdf15 was constructed and transformed 
into E.coli Top10F' for expression. Then the purified fusion protein was used to 
immunize the BALB/c mice. The mouse myeloma cells (Sp2/0) were fused with spleen 
cells from the BALB/c immunized by the purified protein. Subsequently, limited 
dilution method was used three times to screen hybridoma cell lines. The titer 
of the mAb was detected by ELISA and its specificity was analyzed by Western 
blot. The serum level of GDF15 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and health 
people was measured by co-immunoprecipitation (IP) method.
RESULTS: The GST-GDF15 fusion protein was successfully expressed and purified. 
One hybridoma cell line designated 9G3 against GDF15 was obtained. IP and mass 
spectrometric analysis revealed that the mAb recognized GDF15 in human sera with 
high specificity. The level of GDF15 in HCC patients was much higher than that 
in health people.
CONCLUSION: The success in mouse anti-GDF15 mAb preparation provides the basis 
for further developing HCC diagnose kit.

PMID: 21557913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2010 Jun;26(6):837-42.

[Expression and characterization of soluble recombinant Ulp1p with glutathione 
S-transferase tag in Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu J(1), Wang Q, Yin J, Liu M, Li N, Yao W, Ren G, Li L, Li D.

Author information:
(1)Biopharmaceutical Laboratory, College of Life Science, Northeast Agricultural 
University, Harbin 150030, China.

The aim of the study is to obtain an efficient expression of recombinant 
ubiquitin-like specific protease 1 (Ulp1) by gene engineering. We cloned the 
Ulp1p, active fragment (403 aa-621 aa) of Ulp1, from Saccharomyces cerevisia, 
and subcloned into pGEX/Rosetta (DE3) to form an expression plasmid, 
pGEX-Ulp1p-His6. In order to enhance the solubility of GST-Ulp1p-His6, we 
purified the fusion protein GST-Ulp1p-His6 by either glutathione S-transferase 
agarose or Ni-NTA resin chromatography, the purity was up to 98%. We utilized 
the protein to cleave the SUMO fusions, and the specific activity of 
GST-Ulp1p-His6 was 1.375 x 10(4) U/mg. This study showed that the recombinant 
protein GST-Ulp1p-His6 displayed high specificity and activity.

PMID: 20815266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. PLoS One. 2013 May 30;8(5):e64002. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064002. Print 
2013.

Inhibition of TDP-43 aggregation by nucleic acid binding.

Huang YC(1), Lin KF, He RY, Tu PH, Koubek J, Hsu YC, Huang JJ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical Center, Neihu, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

The aggregation of TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP-43) has been shown as a hallmark 
of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration 
(FTLD) since 2006. While evidence has suggested that mutation or truncation in 
TDP-43 influences its aggregation process, nevertheless, the correlation between 
the TDP-43 aggregation propensity and its binding substrates has not been fully 
established in TDP-43 proteinopathy. To address this question, we have 
established a platform based on the in vitro protein expression system to 
evaluate the solubility change of TDP-43 in response to factors such as 
nucleotide binding and temperature. Our results suggest that the solubility of 
TDP-43 is largely influenced by its cognate single-strand DNA (ssDNA) or RNA 
(ssRNA) rather than hnRNP, which is known to associate with TDP-43 C-terminus. 
The direct interaction between the refolded TDP-43, purified from E.coli, and 
ssDNA were further characterized by Circular Dichroism (CD) as well as turbidity 
and filter binding assay. In addition, ssDNA or ssRNA failed to prevent the 
aggregation of the F147L/F149L double mutant or truncated TDP-43 (TDP208-414). 
Consistently, these two mutants form aggregates, in contrast with the wild-type 
TDP-43, when expressed in Neuro2a cells. Our results demonstrate an intimate 
relationship between the solubility of TDP-43 and its DNA or RNA binding 
affinity, which may shed light on the role of TDP-43 in ALS and FTLD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064002
PMCID: PMC3667863
PMID: 23737961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1093. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2011 Jan;31(1):65-8.

[Construction of a lentiviral vector containing human NESG1 gene and its 
expression in 293FT cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Z(1), Zhen Y, Yu XL, Jiang QP, Long J, Fang WY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 510182, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a lentiviral vector carrying human NESG1-EGFP gene and 
observe its expression in 293FT cells.
METHODS: The CDS region of NESG1 gene was amplified from a plasmid containing 
the full-length NESG1 sequence and cloned into the lentiviral vector pGC-FU-EGFP 
by restriction endonuclease AgeI digestion and T(4) DNA ligase ligation. After 
transformation into competent E. coli cells, the candidate clones were 
identified by PCR and sequencing. The recombinant plasmid and the two packaging 
plasmids were co-transfected into human embryonic kidney cell line 293FT cells 
by lipofectamine 2000 to produce the lentiviral particles, and the viral titer 
was determined. The 293FT cells were infected by the lentiviral particles 
obtained and the transfection efficiency was assessed under fluorescent 
microscope. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of NESG1 protein 
in the transfected cells.
RESULTS: The lentiviral vector pGC-FU-NESG1-EGFP for NESG1 gene was constructed 
successfully. Strong green fluorescence was observed in 293FT cells under 
fluorescent microscope after co-transfection of the cells with the 3 plasmids of 
lentiviral vector. The virus in the supernatant reached a titer of 2×10(7) 
TU/ml. The transfection efficiency of the collected virus exceeded 90% in 293FT 
cells with a multiplicity of infection of 1. Western blotting identified the 
presence of NESG1 expression in the transfected 293FT cells.
CONCLUSION: The lentiviral vector for NESG1 has been successfully constructed 
with a high yield of lentivirus, which facilitate further investigation of the 
roles of NESG1 gene in the development and progression of nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma.

PMID: 21269959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2002 Aug;42(4):400-5.

[Fusion expression of PLA2 gene from Lapemis hardwickii in E. coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang W(1), Ye L, Zou L, Wang F, Xu A.

Author information:
(1)National Opening Laboratory for Marine Functional Genomics Research, School 
of Life Science, Zhongshan University, Guangzhou 510275, China.

The gene encoding PLA2(PLA2-9) from Lapemis hardwickii Gray venom was cloned to 
the 3' and of the thioredoxin gene (HP-trxA and trxA) in plasmid pthioHisC and 
pTRX to construct the pThioHisC-PLA2, and pTRX-PLA2 fusion expression vector. 
The fusion protein of PLA2 can be expressed in the two different systems induced 
by IPTG at 25 degrees C, but the expression level and the solubility of the 
fusion protein in pTRX were better than that in pThioHisC. The expressed product 
in the two systems were purified by immobilized metal-chelate affinity 
chromatography. The Trx-PLA2 fusion protein with over 85% purity was obtained 
and HP-Trx-PLA2 fusion protein can not be purified since it dose not exhibit 
affinity to the medium. So, the pTRX-PLA2 vector system was established for the 
large-scale expression and purification.

PMID: 12557543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. Protein Pept Lett. 2012 Mar;19(3):288-98. doi: 10.2174/092986612799363145.

Expression, purification and development of neutralizing antibodies from 
synthetic BoNT/B LC and its application in detection of botulinum toxin serotype 
B.

Ponmariappan S(1), Jain S, Sijoria R, Tomar A, Kumar O.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Division, Defence Research and Development Establishment, 
Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, India. ponmariappans@yahoo.com

Botulism is a neuroparalytic disease caused by Clostridium botulinum, which 
produces seven (A-G) neurotoxins (BoNTs). The mouse bioassay is the gold 
standard for the detection of botulinum neurotoxins, however it requires at 
least 3-4 days for completion. Most of the studies were carried out in botulinum 
toxin A and less on type B. Attempts have been made to develop an ELISA based 
detection system, which is potentially an easier and more rapid method of 
botulinum neurotoxin detection. In the present study, the synthetic BoNT/B LC 
gene was constructed using PCR overlapping primers, cloned in a pET28a+ vector 
and expressed in E. coli BL21DE3. The maximum yield of recombinant proteins was 
optimized after 16 hrs of post induction at 21°C and purified the recombinant 
protein in soluble form. Antibodies were raised in Mice and Rabbit. The IgG 
antibody titer in the case of Mice was 1: 1,024,000 and Rabbit was 1: 512,000 
with alum as adjuvant via intramascular route. The biological activity of the 
recombinant protein was confirmed by in-vitro studies using PC12 cells by the 
synaptobrevin cleavage, the rBoNT/B LC protein showed the maximum blockage of 
acetylcholine release at a concentration of 150nM rBoNT/B LC in comparison to 
the control cells. When the cells were incubated with rBoNT/B LC neutralized by 
the antisera raised against it, the acetylcholine release was equivalent to the 
control. IgG specific to rBoNT/B LC was purified from raised antibodies. The 
results showed that the developed antibody against rBoNT/B LC protein were able 
to detect botulinum toxin type B approximately up to 1 ng/ml. These developed 
high titer antibodies may prove useful for the detection of botulinum 
neurotoxins in food and clinical samples.

DOI: 10.2174/092986612799363145
PMID: 21933129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;498:229-44. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-196-3_15.

High-throughput protein expression using cell-free system.

Sitaraman K(1), Chatterjee DK.

Author information:
(1)Protein Expression Laboratory, SAIC-Frederick, Inc., National Cancer 
Institute at Frederick, MD, USA.

One of the main challenges in this post genomic era is the development and 
implementation of efficient methods of protein synthesis. A clear understanding 
of the role of genes in an organism is to comprehend the biological functions of 
all of its proteins. Acquiring this knowledge will depend in part on the success 
of rapid synthesis and purification of proteins. The future of structural 
genomics and functional proteomics depends on the availability of abundantly 
expressing, soluble proteins in a high-throughput manner. Conventional cell 
based methods of protein expression is rather laborious, time consuming and the 
ways to fail are numerous including solubility, toxicity to the host and 
instability (e.g. proteolysis). Cell-free or in vitro protein synthesis, on the 
other hand allows the expression and analysis of protein synthesis, may solve 
many of these problems. It is a simple open system which lends itself for 
manipulations and modifications to influence protein folding, disulfide bond 
formation, incorporation of unnatural amino acids, protein stability (by 
incorporating protease inhibitors in the system) and even the expression of 
toxic proteins. Cell-free synthesis can also be used as a reliable screening 
methodology for subsequent protein expression in vivo. Furthermore, this 
technology is readily amenable to automation. Here, we present a protocol for 
expressing recombinant proteins with high yield in a standard 96-well plate 
format using E. coli cell-free extract in a batch mode.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-196-3_15
PMID: 18988029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Res Pharm Sci. 2018 Dec;13(6):566-574. doi: 10.4103/1735-5362.245968.

Improvement of solubility and refolding of an anti-human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 single-chain antibody fragment inclusion bodies.

Salehinia J(1), Sadeghi HMM(1), Abedi D(2), Akbari V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Isfahan Pharmaceutical 
Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
(2)Department of Drug & Food Control, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, I.R. Iran.

Single chain variable fragment antibodies (scFvs) have attracted many attentions 
due to their small size, faster bio-distribution and better penetration in to 
the target tissues, and ease of expression in Escherichia coli. Although, scFv 
expression in E. coli usually leads to formation of inclusion bodies (IBs). The 
aim of this research was to improve solubilizing and refolding conditions for 
IBs of scFv version of pertuzumab (anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) antibody). After protein overexpression in E. coli BL21 (DE3), bacterial 
cells were lysed and IBs were extracted via repeated washing and centrifugation. 
The effect of different types, concentrations, pHs, and additive of denaturing 
agents on IBs solubility were evaluated. More than 40 refolding additives were 
screened and combinations of 10 of the best additives were check out using 
Plackett-Burman design to choose three refolding additives with the most 
positive effect on refolding of the scFv. Response surface methodology (RSM) was 
used to optimize the concentration of adopted additives. The most efficient 
buffer to solubilize IBs was a buffer containing 6 M urea with 6 mM beta 
mercaptoethanol, pH 11. The optimum concentration of three buffer additives for 
refolding of the scFv was 23 mM tricine, 0.55 mM arginine, and 14.3 mM 
imidazole. The bioactivity of the refolded scFv was confirmed by 
immunohistochemical staining of breast cancer tissue, a specific binding based 
method. The systematic optimization of refolding buffer developed in the present 
work will contribute to improve the refolding of other scFv fragments.

DOI: 10.4103/1735-5362.245968
PMCID: PMC6288993
PMID: 30607154


1098. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2005 Oct;45(5):763-6.

[Cloning, expression and preparation of polyclonal antibody for IBDV 
non-structure protein gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu L(1), Li L, Liu Y, Zheng JT, Wei YW, Xu J.

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, 
Institute of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 
China. yulian@zju.edu.cn

Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) VP5 gene was amplified and cloned into an 
N-terminal GST-Tag fusion expression vector, pGEX-4T-2, which was controlled by 
T7 promoter. The sequencing result showed that the VP5 gene was composed of 438 
base pairs, and coded 145 amino acids. High VP5 product was expressed in E. coli 
BL21 induced by IPTG, and the GST-VP5 fusion protein existed in inclusion. High 
titer anti-VP5 serum was also prepared in New Zealand rabbit immunized with 
purified fusion protein inclusion. These results gave a basis for further 
research for VP5 function in IBDV replication and pathogenicity, which also 
paved the way for developing VP5 gene deleted IBDV live vaccine.

PMID: 16342772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. ACS Chem Biol. 2019 Jul 19;14(7):1564-1572. doi: 10.1021/acschembio.9b00307. 
Epub 2019 Jun 17.

A Highly Versatile Expression System for the Production of Multiply 
Phosphorylated Proteins.

Zhu P(1), Gafken PR(2), Mehl RA(1), Cooley RB(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon State University , Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 2011 
Agricultural and Life Sciences , Corvallis , Oregon 97331 , United States.
(2)Proteomics Shared Resource , Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center , Seattle 
, Washington 98109 , United States.

Genetic Code Expansion (GCE) can use TAG stop codons to guide site-specific 
incorporation of phosphoserine (pSer) into proteins. To eliminate prematurely 
truncated peptides, improve yields, and enhance the production of 
multiphosphorylated proteins, Release Factor 1 (RF1)-deficient expression hosts 
were developed, yet these grew slowly and their use was associated with 
extensive misincorporation of natural amino acids instead of pSer. Here, we 
merge a healthy RF1-deficient E. coli cell line with a high-efficiency pSer GCE 
translation system to produce a versatile pSer GCE platform in which only trace 
misincorporation of natural amino acids is detected even when five 
phosphoserines were introduced into one protein. Approximately 400 and 200 mg of 
singly and doubly phosphorylated GFP per liter of culture were obtained. 
Importantly, the lack of truncated protein permits expression of oligomeric 
proteins and the use of N-terminal solubility-enhancing proteins to aid 
phospho-protein expression and purification. To illustrate the enhanced utility 
of this system, we produce doubly phosphorylated STING (Stimulator of Interferon 
Genes), as well as triply phosphorylated BAD (Bcl2-associated agonist of cell 
death) complexed with 14-3-3, in quantity, purity, and homogeneity sufficient 
for structural biology applications. We anticipate that the facile access to 
phosphoproteins enabled by this system, which we call pSer-3.1G, will expand 
studies of the phospho-proteome.

DOI: 10.1021/acschembio.9b00307
PMCID: PMC7737670
PMID: 31243963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest. The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


1100. BMC Biotechnol. 2013 Feb 14;13:12. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-13-12.

A new method to customize protein expression vectors for fast, efficient and 
background free parallel cloning.

Scholz J(1), Besir H, Strasser C, Suppmann S.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Am Klopferspitz 18, Martinsried 82152, 
Germany. suppmann@biochem.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: Expression and purification of correctly folded proteins typically 
require screening of different parameters such as protein variants, solubility 
enhancing tags or expression hosts. Parallel vector series that cover all 
variations are available, but not without compromise. We have established a 
fast, efficient and absolutely background free cloning approach that can be 
applied to any selected vector.
RESULTS: Here we describe a method to tailor selected expression vectors for 
parallel Sequence and Ligation Independent Cloning. SLIC cloning enables precise 
and sequence independent engineering and is based on joining vector and insert 
with 15-25 bp homologies on both DNA ends by homologous recombination. We 
modified expression vectors based on pET, pFastBac and pTT backbones for 
parallel PCR-based cloning and screening in E.coli, insect cells and HEK293E 
cells, respectively. We introduced the toxic ccdB gene under control of a strong 
constitutive promoter for counterselection of insert less vector. In contrast to 
DpnI treatment commonly used to reduce vector background, ccdB used in our 
vector series is 100% efficient in killing parental vector carrying cells and 
reduces vector background to zero. In addition, the 3' end of ccdB functions as 
a primer binding site common to all vectors. The second shared primer binding 
site is provided by a HRV 3C protease cleavage site located downstream of 
purification and solubility enhancing tags for tag removal. We have so far 
generated more than 30 different parallel expression vectors, and successfully 
cloned and expressed more than 250 genes with this vector series. There is no 
size restriction for gene insertion, clone efficiency is > 95% with clone 
numbers up to 200. The procedure is simple, fast, efficient and cost-effective. 
All expression vectors showed efficient expression of eGFP and different target 
proteins requested to be produced and purified at our Core Facility services.
CONCLUSION: This new expression vector series allows efficient and 
cost-effective parallel cloning and thus screening of different protein 
constructs, tags and expression hosts.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-13-12
PMCID: PMC3598636
PMID: 23410102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Oct 10;12(4):4371-82. doi: 10.4238/2013.October.10.3.

Antibody-based detection of alkaline phosphatase in lepidopteran insects 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae).

Khan RA(1), Rashid M, Wang D, Zhang YL.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Protection Resources and Pest Management, Ministry of 
Education, College of Plant Protection, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi, China.

Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) of Helicoverpa armigera Hub. (Lepidoptera; Noctuidae) 
(GenBank accession No. EU729322) was cloned and expressed. The target gene 
H.a-ALP, having an open reading frame of 1608 bp, was reverse-transcribed from 
cDNA by the polymerase chain reaction. The open reading frame of the target gene 
was cloned into the pET-32a expression vector to obtain recombinant protein in 
Escherichia coli DE-3 cells for the subsequent production of polyclonal 
antibody. New Zealand white rabbits were used for production of 
anti-pET-32a-H.a-ALP. The production of antibody was also optimized by employing 
ELISA for titer determination. The produced antiserum was processed and used as 
an antibody. Western blot results showed that the polyclonal antibody produced 
was capable of effectively binding target protein not only from H. armigera but 
also from other lepidopterans such as Mythimna separata and Plutella xylostella. 
This antibody was also used to detect levels of ALP within different instars of 
H. armigera. Thus, it is concluded that this antibody-based assay is very useful 
for the effective detection of gene-specific expression. Furthermore, it may 
also be used to detect the expression levels and tissue localization of ALP, as 
well as in other physiological studies involving this enzyme.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.October.10.3
PMID: 24222217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. J Immunol Methods. 2014 Jan 31;403(1-2):37-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2013.11.015. 
Epub 2013 Nov 26.

A His6-SUMO-eXact tag for producing human prepro-urocortin 2 in Escherichia coli 
for raising monoclonal antibodies.

Liew OW(1), Ang CX(2), Peh YP(2), Chong PC(2), Ng YX(2), Hwang LA(3), Koh XY(3), 
Yip YM(3), Liu W(4), Richards AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin 
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, National University Health 
System, 14 Medical Drive, Singapore 117599, Singapore. Electronic address: 
mdclow@nus.edu.sg.
(2)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin 
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, National University Health 
System, 14 Medical Drive, Singapore 117599, Singapore.
(3)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, 61 Biopolis Drive, Singapore 138673, 
Singapore.
(4)Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., 2650 Crescent Drive, Suite #100, Lafayette, CO 
80026, United States.

This is a first report of recombinant production of human prepro-Urocortin 2 in 
Escherichia coli by N-terminal fusion with a triple His₆-SUMO-eXact tag and its 
subsequent use as an antigen for the production and screening of very high 
affinity monoclonal antibodies. The rationale for this combinatorial construct 
is that the His tag allows first step protein purification of insoluble and 
soluble proteins, the SUMO tag enhances protein expression level and solubility, 
while the eXact tag facilitates anion-triggered on-column cleavage of the triple 
tag to recover pure native proteins in a simple two-step protein purification 
procedure. Compared with an eXact fusion alone, the presence of the SUMO moiety 
enhanced overall expression levels by 4 to 10 fold but not the solubility of the 
highly basic prepro-Urocortin 2. Insoluble SUMO-eXact-preproUCN2 was purified in 
milligram quantities by denaturing IMAC and solubilized in native phosphate 
buffer by on-column refolding or step-wise dialysis. Only a small fraction of 
this solubilized protein was able to bind onto the eXact™ affinity column and 
cleaved by NaF treatment. To test whether binding and cleavage failure was due 
to improperly refolded SUMO-eXact-preproUCN2 or to the presence of N- and 
C-terminal sequences flanking the eXact moiety, we created a 
SUMO-eXact-thioredoxin construct which was overexpressed mainly in the soluble 
form. This protein bound to and was cleaved efficiently on the eXact™ column to 
yield native thioredoxin. Solubilized SUMO-eXact-preproUCN2 was used 
successfully to generate two high affinity mouse monoclonal antibodies (KD~10⁻¹⁰ 
and 10⁻¹¹ M) specific to the pro-region of Urocortin 2.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2013.11.015
PMID: 24291344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2018 Jun;113:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2018.02.005. 
Epub 2018 Feb 17.

Cloning, expression and characterisation of P450-Hal1 (CYP116B62) from Halomonas 
sp. NCIMB 172: A self-sufficient P450 with high expression and diverse substrate 
scope.

Porter JL(1), Sabatini S(1), Manning J(1), Tavanti M(1), Galman JL(1), Turner 
NJ(1), Flitsch SL(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, The University of 
Manchester, UK.
(2)School of Chemistry, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, The University of 
Manchester, UK. Electronic address: sabine.flitsch@manchester.ac.uk.

Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases are able to catalyse a range of synthetically 
challenging reactions ranging from hydroxylation and demethylation to 
sulfoxidation and epoxidation. As such they have great potential for 
biocatalytic applications but are underutilised due to often-poor expression, 
stability and solubility in recombinant bacterial hosts. The use of 
self-sufficient P450 s with fused haem and reductase domains has already 
contributed heavily to improving catalytic efficiency and simplifying an 
otherwise more complex multi-component system of P450 and redox partners. 
Herein, we present a new addition to the class VII family with the cloning, 
sequencing and characterisation of the self-sufficient CYP116B62 Hal1 from 
Halomonas sp. NCIMB 172, the genome of which has not yet been sequenced. Hal1 
exhibits high levels of expression in a recombinant E. coli host and can be 
utilised from cell lysate or used in purified form. Hal1 favours NADPH as 
electron donor and displays a diverse range of activities including 
hydroxylation, demethylation and sulfoxidation. These properties make Hal1 
suitable for future biocatalytic applications or as a template for optimisation 
through engineering.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2018.02.005
PMID: 29602381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Biotechnol Lett. 2021 Aug;43(8):1575-1583. doi: 10.1007/s10529-021-03141-x. Epub 
2021 May 9.

Design of fusion protein for efficient preparation of cyanovirin-n and rapid 
enrichment of pseudorabies virus.

Wang B(#)(1), Yang Z(#)(1), Gao D(#)(1), Wang F(1), Liu M(1), Chen G(1), Ma 
L(2), Yu X(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, China. malixing@hubu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, China. yxiaolan@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Cyanovirin-N (CVN) is a cyanobacterial protein with potent 
neutralizing activity against enveloped virus. To achieve the economic and 
functional production of CVN, the CVN N-terminally fused with CL7(A mutant of 
the Colicin E7 Dnase) was utilized to improve the solubility and stability of 
CVN fusion protein (CL7-CVN). Additionally, to improve the detection limit of 
existing PRV diagnostic assays, CL7-CVN was used for Pseudorabies virus (PRV) 
enrichment from larger sample volumes.
RESULTS: CVN fused with CL7 was efficiently expressed at a level of ~ 40% of the 
total soluble protein in E. coli by optimizing the induction conditions. Also, 
the stability of CVN fusion protein was enhanced, and 10 mg of CVN with a purity 
of ~ 99% were obtained from 1 g of cells by one-step affinity purification with 
the digestion of HRV 3C protease. Moreover, both purified CVN and CL7-CVN could 
effectively inhibit the infection of PRV to PK15 cells. Considering the 
bioactivity of CL7-CVN, we explored a strategy for PRV enrichment from larger 
samples.
CONCLUSIONS: CL7 effectively promoted the soluble expression of CVN fusion 
protein and improved its stability, which was meaningful for its purification 
and application. The design of CVN fusion protein provides an efficient approach 
for the economical and functional production of CVN and a new strategy for PRV 
enrichment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-021-03141-x
PMCID: PMC8106970
PMID: 33969451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no financial 
or commercial conflict of interest.


1105. Bioresour Technol. 2012 Jan;103(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.09.099. 
Epub 2011 Oct 2.

Production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid through propionaldehyde dehydrogenase PduP 
mediated biosynthetic pathway in Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Luo LH(1), Kim CH, Heo SY, Oh BR, Hong WK, Kim S, Kim DH, Seo JW.

Author information:
(1)Microbe-based Fusion Technology Research Center, Jeonbuk Branch Institute, 
Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Jeongeup, 
Jeonbuk 580-185, South Korea.

The pduP gene encodes a propionaldehyde dehydrogenase (PduP) was investigated 
for the role in 3-hydroxypropionic acid (3-HP) glycerol metabolism in Klebsiella 
pneumoniae. The enzyme assay showed that cell extracts from a pduP mutant strain 
lacked measurable dehydrogenase activity. Additionally, the mutant strain 
accumulated the cytotoxic intermediate metabolite 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde 
(3-HPA), causing both cell death and a lower final 3-HP titer. Ectopic 
expression of pduP restored normal cell growth to mutant. The enzymatic property 
of recombinant protein from Escherichia coli was examined, exhibiting a broad 
substrate specificity, being active on 3-HPA. The present work is thus the first 
to demonstrate the role of PduP in glycerol metabolism and biosynthesis of 3-HP.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.09.099
PMID: 22018749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Feb;33(2):223-31. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.09.008.

Expression, purification, and biochemical characterization of enteroaggregative 
Escherichia coli heat-stable enterotoxin 1.

Ménard LP(1), Lussier JG, Lépine F, Paiva de Sousa C, Dubreuil JD.

Author information:
(1)Groupe de Recherche sur les Maladies Infectieuses du Porc (GREMIP), Faculté 
de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal, C.P. 5000 Saint-Hyacinthe, 
Quebec J2S 7C6, Canada.

Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) heat-stable enterotoxin 1 (EAST1) is a 
4.1k Da protein originally discovered in EAEC but known to be scattered in other 
diarrheagenic E. coli as well, possibly causing diarrhea in humans and animals. 
We report for the first time a method to express and purify EAST1 using the 
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion system. The gst and astA genes were fused 
together on a pGEX-2T plasmid vector to produce a GST-EAST1 fusion protein. 
Using Glutathione Sepharose affinity chromatography and C(8) reverse phase high 
pressure liquid chromatography, EAST1 was purified to homogeneity with a yield 
of 0.29 mg/L of culture. The protein purified by this method was confirmed to be 
EAST1 by NH(2)-terminal sequencing and mass spectrometry. The molecular weight 
of EAST1 is 4104.0 Da, confirming a 38 amino acid peptide as predicted by the 
astA gene sequence. Mass spectrometry analysis of EAST1 and of two generated 
peptides established the presence and suggested the position of two disulfide 
bridges of EAST1 in the conformations C1-C2 and C3-C4. Polyclonal antibodies 
were raised against EAST1 in New Zealand white rabbits to a titer of 1:8000 
using affinity-purified GST-EAST1 fusion protein and to a titer of 1:100 using 
HPLC-purified EAST1. The biological activity of various EAST1 preparations was 
tested using the suckling mouse assay with CD-1 and CFW mice strains, but failed 
to produce fluid accumulation in the intestine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.09.008
PMID: 14711510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2019 Sep 9;12:211. doi: 10.1186/s13068-019-1554-0. 
eCollection 2019.

Metabolic engineering of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens for enhanced production of 
S-adenosylmethionine by coupling of an engineered S-adenosylmethionine pathway 
and the tricarboxylic acid cycle.

Ruan L(#)(1), Li L(#)(1), Zou D(1), Jiang C(1), Wen Z(1)(2), Chen S(3), Deng 
Y(4), Wei X(1).

Author information:
(1)1Key Laboratory of Environment Correlative Dietology (Ministry of Education), 
College of Food Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 
430070 China.
(2)4Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Iowa State University, Ames, 
50011 USA.
(3)3Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Green Transformation of 
Bio-Resources, College of Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan, 430062 China.
(4)2National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology (NELCF), 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122 China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: S-Adenosylmethionine (SAM) is a critical cofactor involved in many 
biochemical reactions. However, the low fermentation titer of SAM in 
methionine-free medium hampers commercial-scale production. The SAM synthesis 
pathway is specially related to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle in Bacillus 
amyloliquefaciens. Therefore, the SAM synthesis pathway was engineered and 
coupled with the TCA cycle in B. amyloliquefaciens to improve SAM production in 
methionine-free medium.
RESULTS: Four genes were found to significantly affect SAM production, including 
SAM2 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, metA and metB from Escherichia coli, and 
native mccA. These four genes were combined to engineer the SAM pathway, 
resulting in a 1.42-fold increase in SAM titer using recombinant strain HSAM1. 
The engineered SAM pathway was subsequently coupled with the TCA cycle through 
deletion of succinyl-CoA synthetase gene sucC, and the resulted HSAM2 mutant 
produced a maximum SAM titer of 107.47 mg/L, representing a 0.59-fold increase 
over HSAM1. Expression of SAM2 in this strain via a recombinant plasmid resulted 
in strain HSAM3 that produced 648.99 mg/L SAM following semi-continuous flask 
batch fermentation, a much higher yield than previously reported for 
methionine-free medium.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reports an efficient strategy for improving SAM 
production that can also be applied for generation of SAM cofactors supporting 
group transfer reactions, which could benefit metabolic engineering, chemical 
biology and synthetic biology.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-019-1554-0
PMCID: PMC6732833
PMID: 31516550

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


1108. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2018 Jan;115(1):156-164. doi: 10.1002/bit.26446. Epub 2017 
Oct 6.

Temperature-dependent dynamic control of the TCA cycle increases volumetric 
productivity of itaconic acid production by Escherichia coli.

Harder BJ(1), Bettenbrock K(1), Klamt S(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Dynamics of Complex Technical Systems, Magdeburg, 
Germany.

Based on the recently constructed Escherichia coli itaconic acid production 
strain ita23, we aimed to improve the productivity by applying a two-stage 
process strategy with decoupled production of biomass and itaconic acid. We 
constructed a strain ita32 (MG1655 ΔaceA Δpta ΔpykF ΔpykA pCadCs), which, in 
contrast to ita23, has an active tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and a fast 
growth rate of 0.52 hr-1 at 37°C, thus representing an ideal phenotype for the 
first stage, the growth phase. Subsequently we implemented a synthetic genetic 
control allowing the downregulation of the TCA cycle and thus the switch from 
growth to itaconic acid production in the second stage. The promoter of the 
isocitrate dehydrogenase was replaced by the Lambda promoter (pR ) and its 
expression was controlled by the temperature-sensitive repressor CI857 which is 
active at lower temperatures (30°C). With glucose as substrate, the respective 
strain ita36A grew with a fast growth rate at 37°C and switched to production of 
itaconic acid at 28°C. To study the impact of the process strategy on 
productivity, we performed one-stage and two-stage bioreactor cultivations. The 
two-stage process enabled fast formation of biomass resulting in improved peak 
productivity of 0.86 g/L/hr (+48%) and volumetric productivity of 0.39 g/L/hr 
(+22%) in comparison to the one-stage process. With our dynamic production 
strain, we also resolved the glutamate auxotrophy of ita23 and increased the 
itaconic acid titer to 47 g/L. The temperature-dependent activation of gene 
expression by the Lambda promoters (pR /pL ) has been frequently used to improve 
protein or, in a few cases, metabolite production in two-stage processes. Here 
we demonstrate that the system can be as well used in the opposite direction to 
selectively knock-down an essential gene (icd) in E. coli to design a two-stage 
process for improved volumetric productivity. The control by temperature avoids 
expensive inducers and has the potential to be generally used to improve cell 
factory performance.

© 2017 The Authors. Biotechnology and Bioengineering Published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26446
PMCID: PMC5725713
PMID: 28865130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. J Biotechnol. 2019 May 20;297:32-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.03.019. Epub 
2019 Mar 30.

Enhancing the synthesis of latex clearing protein by different cultivation 
strategies.

Andler R(1), Heger F(2), Andreeßen C(2), Steinbüchel A(2).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Agrarias y Forestales, Universidad Católica del Maule, 
Av. San Miguel 3605, Talca, Chile. Electronic address: randler@ucm.cl.
(2)Institut für Molekulare Mikrobiologie und Biotechnologie, Westfälische 
Wilhelms-Universität Münster, D-48149, Münster, Germany.

In this study, we improved the synthesis of the latex clearing protein from 
Gordonia polyisoprenivorans VH2 (Lcp1VH2), a key enzyme for the initial cleavage 
of the rubber backbone. Cultivations using a recombinant strain of Escherichia 
coli were optimized to overcome poor solubility of Lcp1VH2 and improve the 
production yields. Different cultivation temperatures and agitation rates were 
evaluated in the process to demonstrate their impact on the solubility of 
Lcp1VH2. A specific maximum production rate of 28.3 mg Lcp1VH2 g-1 cell dry 
weight h-1 was obtained at 25 °C and at agitation rates between 200-300 rpm. The 
activity of Lcp1VH2 was strongly influenced by variations in the cultivation 
temperature with a specific maximum activity of 0.81 U mg-1 in cultures 
incubated at 30 °C. Besides cultivation-based optimization, also the strategy of 
fusion protein expression with NusA was successfully applied. The in vivo 
solubility of the Lcp1VH2 fusion protein was calculated to be 73.1%, which means 
an enhancement of 5.7-fold in comparison to the solubility of the native 
Lcp1VH2. The fusion protein of Lcp1VH2 and NusA still exhibited oxygenase 
activity with polyisoprene latex as a substrate. In fact, NusA-His-Lcp1VH2 
reached a 4-fold higher volumetric activity in comparison to Lcp1VH2. 
Oligo(cis-1,4-isoprene) molecules were produced as degradation products due to 
the cleavage of the polymer backbone by NusA-His-Lcp1VH2. The formation of 
oligo-isoprenoid molecules with molecular weights between 236 and 984 Da were 
confirmed by electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry analysis.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.03.019
PMID: 30940434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2005 May;4(2):259-64.

Construction of recombinant adenoviral vector carrying human tissue inhibitor of 
metalloproteinase-1 gene and its expression in vitro.

Xia D(1), Yan LN, Tong Y, Wang XP, Zhang MM, Zhao LY.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of human tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase-1 
(TIMP-1) may play an antitumor role in inhibiting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
growth and progression. The aim of the study was to construct a recombinant 
adenovirus vector carrying hTIMP-1 cDNA for liver gene therapy and observe its 
expression in vitro.
METHODS: The full-length cDNA of hTIMP-1 was positively cloned into the 
adenoviral shuttle vector pAdTrack-CMV, and then cotransformed into competent 
BJ5183 cells with the adenoviral backbone plasmid pAdEasy-1. Thus, a recombinant 
adenovirus AdhTIMP-1 containing full-length cDNA of hTIMP-1 was generated by 
homologous recombination in E. coli. AdhTIMP-1 was then packaged and amplified 
in adenoviral packaging cells, or human embryonic kidney 293 cells. The viral 
titer was checked by green fluorescent protein (GFP), and the expression of 
hTIMP-1 in vitro was detected by the techniques of Western blot and RT-PCR.
RESULTS: The recombinant adenovirus vector carrying hTIMP-1 was constructed and 
confirmed by restriction endonuclease analysis and DNA sequence analysis. The 
transcription of TIMP-1 mRNA in 293 cells was checked by RT-PCR and TIMP-1 
protein could be detected in the culture by Western blot analysis.
CONCLUSION: The successful construction of recombinant adenoviral vector 
carrying human TIMP-1 and the effective expression in vitro has laid a 
foundation for further study of its antitumor function and may pave the way for 
future application in liver gene therapy.

PMID: 15908326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2017 Feb;114(2):463-467. doi: 10.1002/bit.26067. Epub 2016 
Aug 17.

Enhancing fatty acid production in Escherichia coli by Vitreoscilla hemoglobin 
overexpression.

Liu D(1), Wan N(1), Zhang F(1), Tang YJ(1), Wu SG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Energy, Environmental and Chemical Engineering, Washington 
University in St. Louis, One Brookings Drive, St. Louis, Missouri, 63130.

Our recent 13 C-metabolic flux analysis (13 C-MFA) study indicates that energy 
metabolism becomes a rate-limiting factor for fatty acid overproduction in E. 
coli strains (after "Push-Pull-Block" based genetic modifications). To resolve 
this bottleneck, Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb, a membrane protein facilitating 
O2 transport) was introduced into a fatty-acid-producing strain to promote 
oxygen supply and energy metabolism. The resulting strain, FAV50, achieved 70% 
percent higher fatty acid titer than the parent strain in micro-aerobic shake 
tube cultures. In high cell-density bioreactor fermentations, FAV50 achieved 
free fatty acids at a titer of 7.02 g/L (51% of the theoretical yield). In 
addition to "Push-Pull-Block-Power" strategies, our experiments and flux balance 
analysis also revealed the fatty acid over-producing strain is sensitive to 
metabolic burden and oxygen influx, and thus a careful evaluation of the 
cost-benefit tradeoff with the guidance of fluxome analysis will be fundamental 
for the rational design of synthetic biology strains. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 
2017;114: 463-467. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26067
PMID: 27497084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Oct;33(10):1422-1427.

[Preparation and application of polyclonal antibody against non-structural 
protein 1 (NS1) of duck Tembusu virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou Q(1), Su G(1), Xing X(1), Zhou X(1), Shi Y(1), Tang Z(1), Song X(2), Liu 
H(2), Wang G(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Anhui Agricultural University, 
Hefei 230036, China.
(2)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Veterinary Pathobiology and Disease Control, 
Hefei 230036, China.
(3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Anhui Agricultural University, 
Hefei 230036; Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Veterinary Pathobiology and 
Disease Control, Hefei 230036, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
wgj@ahau.edu.cn.

Objective To express prokaryotically the non-structural protein 1 (NS1) of duck 
Tembusu virus (DTMUV) and prepare NS1-specific polyclonal antibodies. Methods 
The NS1 gene of DTMUV strain AH-F10 was amplified by PCR, followed by subcloning 
and expression in the prokaryotic vector pET-32a. The recombinant NS1 protein 
was successfully expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), and purified with 
hydroxymethyl urea and renatured by gradient centrifugation. The BALB/c mice 
were immunized with the purified recombinant NS1 protein to prepare polyclonal 
antibodies against the NS1 protein. Furthermore, the titer of the polyclonal 
antibodies was determined by agar diffusion test (AGP), and the specificity of 
the polyclonal antibodies was verified by Western blotting and indirect 
immunofluorescence assay (IFA). Results Polyclonal antibodies against NS1 
protein in serum was successfully obtained with an AGP titer of 1:8. Western 
blotting and IFA demonstrated that the serum with polyclonal antibodies had a 
high-level specificity and reactivity to the NS1 protein of DTMUV. Conclusion 
Polyclonal antibodies against DTMUV NS1 protein were successfully prepared and 
validated in this study.

PMID: 29169429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Sep;95(5):1179-89. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-012-4100-6. Epub 2012 May 6.

Development of a pilot-scale production process and characterization of a 
recombinant Japanese encephalitis virus envelope domain III protein expressed in 
Escherichia coli.

Tripathi NK(1), Shrivastava A, Biswal KC, Rao PV.

Author information:
(1)Bioprocess Scale Up Facility, Defence Research and Development Establishment, 
Jhansi Road, Gwalior, 474002, India. tripathink@gmail.com

Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is the most important cause of encephalitis in 
most Asian regions. JEV envelope domain III (JEV EDIII) protein is involved in 
binding to host receptors, and it contains specific epitopes that elicit 
virus-neutralizing antibodies. A highly immunogenic, recombinant JEV EDIII 
protein was expressed in Escherichia coli. In order to take this vaccine 
candidate for further studies, recombinant JEV EDIII protein was produced 
employing a pilot-scale fermentation process. Recombinant JEV EDIII protein 
expressed as inclusion bodies (IBs) was solubilized in 8 M urea and renatured by 
on-column refolding protocol in the presence of glycerol. A three-step 
purification process comprising of affinity chromatography, ion-exchange 
chromatography (IEX) based on salt, and IEX based on pH was developed. About 
~124 mg of highly purified and biologically active EDIII protein was obtained 
from 100 g of biomass. Biological function of the purified EDIII protein was 
confirmed by their ability to generate EDIII-specific antibodies in mice that 
could neutralize the virus. These findings suggest that recombinant JEV EDIII 
protein in combination with compatible adjuvant is highly immunogenic and elicit 
high-titer neutralizing antibodies. Thus, recombinant JEV EDIII protein produced 
at large scale can be a potential vaccine candidate.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-012-4100-6
PMID: 22562165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2003 Feb;32(1):4-8. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2003.01.002.

[Construction of prokaryotic expression system of ureB gene from a clinical 
isolate of Helicobacter pylori and identification of immunogenicity of the 
fusion protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen Z(1), Yan J, Mao YF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, College of Medical 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310031, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone Helicobacter pylori ureB gene, to construct prokaryotic 
expression system of the gene and to identify immunogenicity of the fusion 
protein.
METHODS: The ureB gene from a clinical isolate Y06 of H.pylori was amplified by 
high fidelity PCR. The nucleotide sequence of the target DNA amplification 
fragment was sequenced after T-A cloning. The expression vector pET32a with 
inserted ureB gene was constructed. ureB fusion protein was expressed in E.coli 
strain BL21DE3 induced by IPTG at different dosages. Western blot using antibody 
against whole cell of H.pylori as well as immunodiffusion assay using antiserum 
of rabbit against the fusion protein was applied to determine immunogenicity of 
the fusion protein.
RESULTS: In comparison with the reported corresponding sequences, the homology 
of nucleotide sequence of the cloned ureB gene was from 96.88% approximate, 
equals 97.82%, while the homology of its putative amino acid sequence was as 
high as 99.65% approximate, equals 99.82%. The expression output of UreB protein 
in pET32a-ureB-BL21DE3 system was approximately 40%of the total bacterial 
proteins. UreB protein was able to combine with antibody against whole cell of 
H.pylori and induce rabbit to produce high titer antibody after the animal was 
immunized with the protein.
CONCLUSION: An expression system with high efficiency of H.pylori ureB gene has 
been established successfully. The expressed UreB protein with satisfactory 
immunogenicity and immunoreactivity can be used as antigen in H.pylori vaccine.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2003.01.002
PMID: 12640700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. Int J Biol Macromol. 2017 Feb;95:256-262. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.11.036. 
Epub 2016 Nov 11.

Enhancement of solubility, purification and inclusion-bodies-refolding of an 
active pectin lyase from Penicillium occitanis expressed in Escherichia coli.

Hadj Sassi A(1), Trigui-Lahiani H(1), Abdeljalil S(1), Gargouri A(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biotechnologie Moléculaire des Eucaryotes, Centre de 
Biotechnologie de Sfax, PB1177, University of Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratoire de Biotechnologie Moléculaire des Eucaryotes, Centre de 
Biotechnologie de Sfax, PB1177, University of Sfax, Tunisia. Electronic address: 
Faouzi.gargouri@cbs.rnrt.tn.

Pectin lyase (pnl) is the only pectinase able to hydrolyze directly the highly 
methylated pectin without liberating the toxic methanol and without disturbing 
ester content responsible for specific aroma of juices. The cDNA of Penicillium 
occitanis pnl (mature form) was cloned into pET-21a as expression vector and 
over-expressed into Esherichia coli. Most of recombinant pnl was expressed as 
inclusion bodies. Pnl activity was confirmed by colorimetric assay. To enhance 
the solubility yield of the expressed pnl, the effects of induction temperature, 
host strain and expression level were optimized. Maximal production of 
functional pnl was obtained after induction by 0.4mM IPTG at 30°C and 150rpm for 
16h. Interestingly, the use of Origami host strain, having an oxidized cytoplasm 
favoring disulfide bonds formation required for the active conformation of the 
enzyme, has significantly improved the yield of the soluble active form of 
recombinant pnl. This pnl was successfully purified through a single step 
purification using His-Trap affinity column chromatography. This work is the 
first to report pnl expression into Origami strain. Alternatively, the inclusion 
bodies were isolated, denatured by high concentration of urea and gradually 
refolded by successive dialysis, leading to their transformation into soluble 
and active form.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.11.036
PMID: 27845226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Iran Biomed J. 2021 Nov 1;25(6):390-8. doi: 10.52547/ibj.25.6.390.

Production of an Antibody Fragment (scFv) Targeting PcrV Protein of Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in Fed-Batch Cultivation Mode.

Karam S(1)(2), Raigani M(2), Hassani Afshar S(1)(2), Talebkhan Y(2), Bayat E(2), 
Komijani S(2), Nematollahi L(2), Barkhordari F(2), Shafiee Ardestani M(3), 
Davami F(2).

Author information:
(1)International Campus, School Of Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Pasteur Avenue, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Radiopharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is one of the opportunistic pathogens causing 
frequent hospital-acquired life-threatening infections in mechanically 
ventilated patients. The most significant virulence factor of P. aeruginosa is 
type III secretion system (T3SS). PcrV is an important structural protein of the 
T3SS.
METHODS: In the current investigation, a recombinant single-chain fragment 
variable (scFv) mAb against the PcrV protein was expressed in EnBase® 
(fed-batch) cultivation mode. The pETiteTM N-His SUMO Kan vector, including 
anti-PcrV scFv gene, was transformed into Escherichia coli (BL21) cells. The 
expression and solubility of anti-PcrV scFv protein were investigated at two 
different temperatures (25 °C and 30 °C) and at different induction times (4, 6, 
8, 12, and 24 hours).
RESULTS: : Increased efficiency was achieved by EnBase® compared to 
Luria–Bertani broth; owing to the slow release of glucose, the maximum level of 
solubility and total protein expression was observed in EnBase® cultivation 
system at 30 °C and 24 h post induction. Furthermore, IC50 for anti-PcrV scFv 
protein was determined to be approximately 7 μg/mL.
CONCLUSION: : Anti-PcrV scFv produced in this study showed promising in vitro 
results, protecting RBC from lysis by P. aeruginosa (exoU+).

DOI: 10.52547/ibj.25.6.390
PMCID: PMC8744694
PMID: 34641643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Biotechnol J. 2015 Mar;10(3):395-403. doi: 10.1002/biot.201400229. Epub 2015 Jan 
19.

High yields of active Thermus thermophilus proline dehydrogenase are obtained 
using maltose-binding protein as a solubility tag.

Huijbers MM(1), van Berkel WJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The 
Netherlands.

Proline dehydrogenase (ProDH) catalyzes the FAD-dependent oxidation of proline 
to Δ(1) -pyrroline-5-carboxylate, the first step of proline catabolism in many 
organisms. Next to being involved in a number of physiological processes, ProDH 
is of interest for practical applications because the proline imino acid can 
serve as a building block for a wide range of peptides and antibiotics. ProDH is 
a membrane-associated protein and recombinant soluble forms of the enzyme have 
only been obtained in limited amounts. We here report on the heterologous 
production of ProDH from Thermus thermophilus (TtProDH) in Escherichia coli. 
Using maltose-binding protein as solubility tag, high yields of active 
holoenzyme are obtained. Native TtProDH can be produced from cleaving the 
purified fusion protein with trypsin. Size-exclusion chromatography shows that 
fused and clipped TtProDH form oligomers. Thermal stability and co-solvent 
tolerance indicate the conformational robustness of TtProDH. These properties 
together with the high yield make TtProDH attractive for industrial 
applications.

Copyright © 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201400229
PMID: 25545499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. J Biotechnol. 2014 Aug 20;184:128-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.05.005. Epub 
2014 May 22.

Methylation and subsequent glycosylation of 7,8-dihydroxyflavone.

Koirala N(1), Pandey RP(1), Parajuli P(1), Jung HJ(1), Sohng JK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Institute of Biomolecule 
Reconstruction, Sun Moon University, Asansi, Chungnam 336-708, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Institute of Biomolecule 
Reconstruction, Sun Moon University, Asansi, Chungnam 336-708, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: sohng@sunmoon.ac.kr.

An O-methyltransferase SpOMT2884, originating from Streptomyces peucetius ATCC 
27952, was cloned, expressed, and applied for the production of target 
metabolite from Escherichia coli. Biochemical characterization of the 25kDa 
recombinant protein by in vitro and in vivo experiments showed that SpOMT2884 
was an S-adenosyl-l-methionine-dependent O-methyltransferase. SpOMT2884 
catalyzed O-methylation of different classes of flavonoids such as flavones 
(7,8-dihydroxyflavone (7,8-DHF), luteolin), flavonols (quercetin, rutin), 
flavanone (naringenin), and isoflavonoids (daidzein, formononetin). 
Biotransformation of 7,8-DHF, a preferred substrate of SpOMT2884, in a 
grown-induced culture of E. coli BL21 (DE3) harboring the recombinant 
pET-28a-SpOMT2884 stoichiometrically converted 7,8-DHF into 
7-hydroxy-8-methoxyflavone, which was confirmed by liquid chromatography, mass 
spectrometry and various nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy analyses. 
In order to improve the biotransformation substrate, time and media parameters 
were optimized and the production was scaled up using a 3-L fermentor. The 
maximum yield of 7-hydroxy-8-methoxyflavone was 192μM (52.57mg/L), representing 
almost 96% bioconversion within 12h, when 200μM of 7,8-DHF was supplemented in 
the culture. Further, the 7-hydroxy-8-methoxyflavone was purified in large scale 
and was used as a substrate separately for in vitro glycosylation to produce 
glucose, galactose and 2-deoxyglucose conjugated at 7th hydroxyl position of 
7-hydroxy-8-methoxyflavone. Biological activity showed that 
7-hydroxy-8-methoxyflavone had long term cytoprotective and antioxidant effects 
compared to 7,8-DHF suggesting that methylation enhances the stability of 
substrate and glycosylation has proved to increase the water solubility.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.05.005
PMID: 24858680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2003 Feb;32(1):13-6. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2003.01.004.

[Cloning, expression and identification of flaB gene from a clinical isolate of 
Helicobacter pylori].

[Article in Chinese]

Liang SH(1), Mao YF, Yan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, College of Medical 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310031, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone Helicobacter pylori flagellin B gene (flaB) to construct 
prokaryotic expression system of the gene and to identify immunity of the fusion 
protein.
METHODS: The flaB gene from a clinical isolate Y06 of H.pylori was amplified by 
high fidelity PCR. The nucleotide sequence of the target DNA amplification 
fragment was sequenced after T-A cloning. The expression vector pET32a with 
inserted flaB gene was constructed. FlaB fusion protein was expressed in E.coli 
strain BL21DE3 inducted by IPTG at different dosages. Western blot was applied 
to determine immunoreactivity and immunogenicity of the fusion protein and 
antibody against whole cell of H.pylori and rabbit antiserum immunized with the 
fusion protein, respectively.
RESULTS: In comparison with the reported corresponding sequences, the homology 
of nucleotide sequence of the cloned flaB gene was from 96.31% approximate, 
equals 97.73%, while the homology of its putative amino acid sequence was as 
high as 99.41% approximate, equals 100%. The expression output of FlaB fusion 
protein in pET32a-flaB-BL21DE3 system was approximately 40% of the total 
bacterial proteins. FlaB fusion protein was able to combine with antibody 
against whole cell of H.pylori and induce rabbit to produce specific antibody 
with high titer after the animal was immunized with the protein.
CONCLUSION: A prokaryotic expression system of H. pylori flaB gene with high 
efficiency has been established successfully. The expressed FlaB fusion protein 
with satisfactory immunogenicity and immunoreactivity can be used as antigen in 
H.pylori vaccine and detect kit.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2003.01.004
PMID: 12640702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2003 Feb;32(1):9-12. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2003.01.003.

[Cloning, expression and identification of hpaA gene from a clinical isolate of 
Helicobacter pylori].

[Article in Chinese]

Mao YF(1), Yan J, Li LW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, College of Medical 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310031, China.

OBJECTIVE: To clone Helicobacter pylori adhesin (hpaA) gene,to construct the 
expression vector of the gene and to identify immunogenicity of the fusion 
protein.
METHODS: The hpaA gene from a clinical isolate Y06 of H.pylori was amplified by 
high fidelity PCR. The nucleotide sequence of the target DNA amplification 
fragment was sequenced after T-A cloning. The expression vector pET32a with 
inserted hpaA gene was constructed. hpaA fusion protein was expressed in E.coli 
strain BL21DE3 induced by IPTG at different dosages. Western blot using antibody 
against whole cell of H.pylori as well as immunodiffusion assay using antiserum 
of rabbit against the fusion protein was applied to determine immunogenicity of 
the fusion protein.
RESULTS: In comparison with the reported corresponding sequences, the homology 
of nucleotide sequence of the cloned hpaA gene was from 94.25% approximate, 
equals 97.32%, while the homology of its putative amino acid sequence was as 
high as 95.38% approximate, equals 98.46%. The expression output of HpaA fusion 
protein in pET32a-hpaA-BL21DE3 system was approximately 40% of the total 
bacterial proteins. HpaA fusion protein was able to combine with antibody 
against whole cell of H.pylori and induce rabbit to preduce high titer antibody 
after the animal was immunized with the protein.
CONCLUSION: An expression system with high efficiency of H.pylori hpaA gene has 
been established successfully. The expressed HpaA fusion protein with 
satisfactory immunogenicity and immunoreactivity can be used as antigen in 
H.pylori vaccine.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2003.01.003
PMID: 12640701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. World J Gastroenterol. 2004 Apr 1;10(7):977-84. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v10.i7.977.

Construction of prokaryotic expression system of ureB gene from a clinical 
Helicobacter pylori strain and identification of the recombinant protein 
immunity.

Mao YF(1), Yan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, College of Medical 
Science, Zhejiang University, 353 Yanan Road, Hangzhou 310031, Zhejiang 
Province, China.

AIM: To clone ureB gene from a clinical isolate of Helicobacter pylori and 
construct a prokaryotic expression system of the gene and identify immunity of 
the expressed recombinant protein.
METHODS: ureB gene from a clinical H pylori strain Y06 was amplified by the high 
fidelity polymerase chain reaction technique. The target DNA fragment amplified 
from ureB gene was sequenced after T-A cloning. Prokaryotic recombinant 
expression vector pET32a inserted with ureB gene (pET32a-ureB) was constructed. 
The expression of recombinant UreB protein (rUreB) in E. coli BL21DE3 induced by 
isopropylthio-beta-D-galactoside (IPTG) at different concentrations was examined 
by SDS-PAGE. Western blot using commercial antibodies against whole cell of H 
pylori and an immunodiffusion assay using a self-prepared rabbit anti-rUreB 
antibody were applied to determine immunity of the target recombinant protein. 
ELISA was used to detect the antibody against rUreB in sera of 125 H pylori 
infected patients and to examine rUreB expression in 109 H pylori isolates.
RESULTS: In comparison with the reported corresponding sequences, the nucleotide 
sequence homology of the cloned ureB gene was from 96.88-97.82% while the 
homology of its putative amino acid sequence was as high as 99.65-99.82%. The 
rUreB output expressed by pET32a-ureB-BL21DE3 was approximate 30% of the total 
bacterial proteins. rUreB specifically combined with the commercial antibodies 
against whole cell of H pylori and strongly induced rabbits to produce antibody 
with a 1:8 immunodiffusion titer after the animals were immunized with the 
recombinant protein. Serum samples from all H pylori infected patients were 
positive for UreB antibody and UreB expression were detectable in all tested H 
pylori isolates.
CONCLUSION: A prokaryotic expression system with high expression efficiency of H 
pylori ureB gene was successfully established. The expressed rUreB showed 
qualified immunoreactivity and antigenicity. High frequencies of UreB expression 
in different H pylori isolates and specific antibody against UreB in sera of H 
pylori infected patients indicate that UreB is an excellent antigen candidate 
for developing H pylori vaccine.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v10.i7.977
PMCID: PMC4717116
PMID: 15052678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Korean J Parasitol. 2014 Aug;52(4):367-76. doi: 10.3347/kjp.2014.52.4.367. Epub 
2014 Aug 29.

High expression of water-soluble recombinant antigenic domains of Toxoplasma 
gondii secretory organelles.

Yang Z(1), Ahn HJ(1), Nam HW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul 137-701, Korea.

Recombinant antigenic proteins of Toxoplasma gondii are alternative source of 
antigens which are easily obtainable for serodiagnosis of toxoplasmosis. In this 
study, highly antigenic secretory organellar proteins, dense granular GRA2 and 
GRA3, rhoptrial ROP2, and micronemal MIC2, were analyzed by bioinformatics 
approach to express as water-soluble forms of antigenic domains. The 
transmembrane region and disorder tendency of 4 secretory proteins were 
predicted to clone the genes into pGEX-4T-1 vector. Recombinant plasmids were 
transformed into BL21 (DE3) pLysS E. coli, and GST fusion proteins were 
expressed with IPTG. As a result, GST fusion proteins with GRA225-105, 
GRA339-138, ROP2324-561, and MIC21-284 domains had respectively higher value of 
IgG avidity. The rGST-GRA225-105 and rGST-GRA339-138 were soluble, while 
rGST-ROP2324-561 and rGST-MIC21-284 were not. GRA231-71, intrinsically 
unstructured domain (IUD) of GRA2, was used as a linker to enhance the 
solubility. The rGST-GRA231-71-ROP2324-561, a chimeric protein, appeared to be 
soluble. Moreover, rGST-GRA231-71-MIC21-284 was also soluble and had higher IgG 
avidity comparing to rGST-MIC21-284. These 4 highly expressed and water-soluble 
recombinant antigenic proteins may be promising candidates to improve the 
serodiagnosis of toxoplasmosis in addition to the major surface antigen of SAG1.

DOI: 10.3347/kjp.2014.52.4.367
PMCID: PMC4170032
PMID: 25246715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We have no conflict of interest related to this 
study.


1123. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2001 Jul;67(7):3161-7. doi: 
10.1128/AEM.67.7.3161-3167.2001.

Duplication of hemolysin genes in a virulent isolate of Vibrio harveyi.

Zhang XH(1), Meaden PG, Austin B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Heriot-Watt University, Riccarton, 
Edinburgh EH14 4AS, Scotland.

Vibrio harveyi VIB 645, which is very pathogenic towards salmonids and produces 
extracellular product with a high titer of hemolytic activity towards fish 
erythrocytes, was found to contain two closely related hemolysin genes 
(designated vhhA and vhhB), whereas the majority of strains examined (11 of 13) 
carried only a single hemolysin gene. Both genes from VIB 645 were cloned and 
sequenced. The open reading frames (ORFs) of vhhA and vhhB shared a high level 
of identity (98.8%) and were predicted to encode identical polypeptides 
comprising 418 amino acid residues. The VHH protein shows homology to the 
lecithinase of V. mimicus and V. cholerae. Transformants of Escherichia coli 
containing the ORF of either vhhA or vhhB displayed weak hemolytic activity in 
rainbow trout blood agar. The hemolytic activity was very high when the ORF of 
vhhB was cloned in E. coli together with the native promoter. Surprisingly, the 
level of vhh-specific RNA transcript produced by VIB 645 was found to be very 
low. We conclude that the hemolytic phenotype of VIB 645 is not due to increased 
expression of one or both copies of the vhh gene.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.67.7.3161-3167.2001
PMCID: PMC92995
PMID: 11425736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Hum Antibodies. 2018 Feb 5;26(2):103-111. doi: 10.3233/HAB-170327.

Obtaining and characterization of monoclonal antibodies against recombinant 
extracellular domain of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2.

Sarina N, Abeldenov S, Turgimbayeva A, Zhylkibayev A, Ramankulov Y, Khassenov B, 
Eskendirova S.

Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is an important biomarker for 
detection and treatment of different types of cancers such as breast, ovarian, 
stomach cancer. In this study, we developed a monoclonal antibody against the 
extracellular domain (ECD) of HER2 biomarker of breast cancer. For this purpose, 
the ECD-HER2 gene was amplified and cloned into an expression vector. Gene was 
generated in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain for expression of recombinant 
protein. The expressed protein was separated by SDS-PAGE and detected by 
anti-his monoclonal antibody in immunoblotting. Hybridoma cells were obtained by 
fusing myeloma cells with mouse spleen cells injected with recombinant ECD-HER2 
and screened by ELISA for the production of monoclonal antibody. The results 
indicate that out of three candidate hybridoma cells one clone (1E7) was 
producing the highest titer and antibody specificity was envisioned in ELISA 
results. In vivo scaling up culture of hybridoma cells in BALB/C mice lead to 
significant increase in the monoclonal antibody concentration up to 16 mg/ml. 
Immunochemical methods demonstrated the specificity of developed antibody 
against ECD-HER2 protein.

DOI: 10.3233/HAB-170327
PMID: 29036807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. J Biosci Bioeng. 2016 Dec;122(6):685-688. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2016.06.005. 
Epub 2016 Jun 25.

Effect of NADH kinase on poly-3-hydroxybutyrate production by recombinant 
Escherichia coli.

Hong PH(1), Zhang J(2), Liu XJ(3), Tan TW(4), Li ZJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China. Electronic 
address: 1031576370@qq.com.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China. Electronic 
address: chapterbachelor@126.com.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China. Electronic 
address: 576612003@qq.com.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China. Electronic 
address: twtan@mail.buct.edu.cn.
(5)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China. Electronic 
address: lizj@mail.buct.edu.cn.

The cofactor NADPH participates in a variety of anabolic reactions and its 
availability is considered to play a critical role in biotransformation 
processes. NADH kinase (Pos5) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae catalyzes the 
phosphorylation of NADH to generate NADPH. To investigate the effect of NADH 
kinase on poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) production, pos5 was co-expressed with 
PHB synthetic operon phbCAB in Escherichia coli. The recombinant strain carrying 
pos5 and phbCAB co-expression plasmid reached 5.96 g/L cell dry weight with 
64.1% PHB accumulation in 72 h shake flask cultivation, while the control strain 
without pos5 yielded 3.93 g/L cell dry weight with 58.5% PHB content. PHB 
production titer was enhanced from 2.30 g/L to 3.82 g/L. Intracellular cofactor 
concentration analysis revealed that the ratio of NADP/NAD in pos5 
overexpression strain was two times more compared with that of the control 
without pos5. The results showed that NADH kinase could be employed as an 
effective metabolic manipulation target to improve PHB synthesis.

Copyright Â© 2016 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2016.06.005
PMID: 27353858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. Zhonghua Er Bi Yan Hou Tou Jing Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2006 Mar;41(3):176-80.

[Effects of recombinant eotaxin N terminal mutant (Met/Eotaxin) adenovirus on 
allergic rhinitis in mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu J(1), Han DM, Zhou JC, He WF, Zhang XR, Zhen H, Wu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Beijing TongRen 
Hospital Affiliated to Capital University of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, 
China. zhujok@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To obtain the recombinant Eotaxin N Terminal Mutant (Met/Eotaxin) 
adenovirus, and to study its role in allergic diseases.
METHODS: A 400 bp DNA fragment of Eotaxin was cloned from human peripheral blood 
monocyte (PBMC), and the Met/Eotaxin DNA fragment was obtained by NH2-terminal 
mutant. Then, this DNA fragment was inserted into AdEasy transfer vector 
-pAdtrack-CMV plasmid. The plasmid pAdtrack-CMV-Met/Eotaxin was then linearized 
with Pme I and co-transformed into the E coli strain BJ5183 together with 
pAdEasy-1, the viral DNA plasmid. The recombinant Met/Eotaxin adenovirus vector 
was then transfected into 293 cells to produce and amplify viral particles. The 
allergic rhinitis in mice was induced by sensitization and challenging with 
ovalbumin (OVA). Fourty mice were equally divided into allergic rhinitis group 
(AR group) and Ad-Met/Eotaxin group. 2 ml Ad-Met/Eotaxin with titer of 5 x 10(9) 
pfu/ml was intraperitoneal injected in each mice in Ad-Met/Eotaxin group 30 min 
before each challenge. The symptom and the morphological change of nasal mucosa 
were compared in those two groups. The enhanced green fluorescence protein 
(EGFP) expression corresponding to the efficiency of transfection in the 
Ad-Met/Eotaxin group was observed under fluorescence microscope.
RESULTS: The results of sequencing and PCR showed that the Met/Eotaxin gene 
recombinant replication-deficient adenovirus was successfully constructed. The 
adenovirus marker of EGFP could be observed in a higher intensity after 
Ad-Met/Eotaxin intraperitoneal injection. Ad-Met/Eotaxin adenovirus 
significantly alleviated the symptoms and nasal histological changes of allergic 
rhinitis.
CONCLUSION: Ad-Met/Eotaxin could be transfected efficiently with high titer in 
nasal mucosa of mice, and could alleviate the symptoms of allergic rhinitis in 
mice.

PMID: 16759010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Feb;69(2):132-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.09.001. Epub 
2009 Sep 9.

Cloning and purification of recombinant proteins of Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae 
expressed in Escherichia coli.

Simionatto S(1), Marchioro SB, Galli V, Hartwig DD, Carlessi RM, Munari FM, 
Laurino JP, Conceição FR, Dellagostin OA.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 
Brazil.

Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae, the etiological agent of swine enzootic pneumonia, is 
an important pathogen in the swine industry worldwide. Vaccination is the most 
cost-effective strategy for controlling and prevention of this disease. However, 
investigations on pathogenicity mechanisms as well as current serological 
detection methods and the development of new recombinant subunit vaccines are 
hampered by the lack of known and well characterized species-specific M. 
hyopneumoniae antigens. In this work, 54 predicted genes encoding proteins with 
potential to be used as subunit vaccine or antigens in diagnostic tests were 
selected, amplified by PCR and cloned into Escherichia coli expression vectors. 
Recombinant protein expression, solubility and yields were analyzed. The 
majority of the recombinant proteins were expressed in inclusion bodies. After 
solubilization with urea or N-lauroyl sarcosine, recombinant proteins were 
purified by Ni(2+) affinity chromatography. This approach allowed purification 
of thirty recombinant M. hyopneumoniae proteins which will be evaluated as 
vaccine candidates and/or as antigens to be used in diagnostic tests.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.09.001
PMID: 19747547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Steroids. 2019 Dec;152:108495. doi: 10.1016/j.steroids.2019.108495. Epub 2019 
Sep 12.

Soluble expression, purification and biochemical characterization of a C-7 
cholesterol dehydrogenase from Drosophila melanogaster.

Zhu Z(1), Li C(1), Cheng X(1), Chen Y(1), Zhu M(1), Liu X(1), Mao S(1), Qin 
HM(2), Lu F(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology of the Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Industrial Microbiology, College of 
Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, National 
Engineering Laboratory for Industrial Enzymes, Tianjin 300457, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology of the Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Industrial Microbiology, College of 
Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, National 
Engineering Laboratory for Industrial Enzymes, Tianjin 300457, PR China. 
Electronic address: huiminqin@tust.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology of the Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Industrial Microbiology, College of 
Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, National 
Engineering Laboratory for Industrial Enzymes, Tianjin 300457, PR China. 
Electronic address: lfp@tust.edu.cn.

The C-7 cholesterol dehydrogenase (NVD), which converts cholesterol to 
7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) by 7,8-dehydrogenation, plays a pivotal role in the 
metabolism of cholesterol and steroid intermediates. The NVD protein was 
successfully expressed in insect Sf9 cells. To reduce the production cost for 
industrial application, the NVD gene was cloned into E. coli BL21(DE3). However, 
the His-tagged NVD protein showed poor binding to Ni-NTA resin, mainly due to 
the formation of inclusion bodies. Consequently, the expression and solubility 
of NVD were optimized by respectively fusing it with maltose-binding protein 
(MBP), glutathione S-transferase (GST), and the nonspecific DNA binding protein 
from Sulfolobus solfataricus (Sso7d) as solubility tags. The NVD fusion with MBP 
at the N-terminus and His-tag at the C-terminus achieved a high yield of the 
soluble enzyme. It was further purified by ion-exchange chromatography with 
95.4% purity and with a 10.4% yield. The product 7-DHC, which is produced in a 
reaction catalyzed by NVD and ferredoxin reductase KshB, was initially 
identified by GC-MS. An analysis of the amino acid sequence alignment revealed a 
distinct Rieske-type iron-sulfur cluster and non-heme Fe2+-binding domain, which 
are evolutionarily conserved among NVD family enzymes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.steroids.2019.108495
PMID: 31521708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2001 Jun;15(2):182-5.

[Generation of human recombinant antibody Fab fragment to influenza virus from 
combined antibody library].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang G(1), Han F, Liang M.

Author information:
(1)State Key Lab for Molecular Virology and Genetic Engineering, Institute of 
Virology, Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, Beijing 100052, China.

OBJECTIVE: To acquire the recombinant human monoclonal antibodies to influenza 
virus which can be used in mucous membrane treatment to prevent the infection of 
virus in animal model in the future.
METHODS: Construct and pan human Fab antibody library to influenza virus Sydney 
strain (H3N2) from vaccinated donors by using phage display technology and 
secreted expression in E. Coli system. The positive Fab clones with 
neutralization activity to influenza virus were selected and characterized 
through HI test, IFA and VN test.
RESULTS: Separate two Fab clones, IV-2 and IV-6, appear positive responses in 
ELISA and IFA. These two clones can inhibit hemagglutination in HI test and can 
decrease viral titer by 30 and 20 times in viral neutralization assay, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: We have got two clones of Fab fragments with neutralization activity 
to influenza virus Sydney strain (H3N2).

PMID: 11436656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1404:483-495. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3389-1_31.

Production and Purification of Recombinant Filamentous Bacteriophages Displaying 
Immunogenic Heterologous Epitopes.

Deng L(1)(2), Linero F(1)(2), Saelens X(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 
927, Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Medical Biotechnology Center, VIB, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent University, Technologiepark 
927, Ghent, Belgium. Xavier.Saelens@vib-Ugent.be.
(4)Medical Biotechnology Center, VIB, Ghent, Belgium. 
Xavier.Saelens@vib-Ugent.be.

Viruslike particles often combine high physical stability with robust 
immunogenicity. Furthermore, when such particles are based on bacteriophages, 
they can be produced in high amounts at minimal cost and typically will require 
only standard biologically contained facilities. We provide protocols for the 
characterization and purification of recombinant viruslike particles derived 
from filamentous bacteriophages. As an example, we focus on filamentous 
Escherichia coli fd phage displaying a conserved influenza A virus epitope that 
is fused genetically to the N-terminus of the major coat protein of this phage. 
A step-by-step procedure to obtain a high-titer, pure recombinant phage 
preparation is provided. We also describe a quality control experiment based on 
a biological readout of the purified fd phage preparation. These protocols 
together with the highlighted critical steps may facilitate generic 
implementation of the provided procedures for the display of other epitopes by 
recombinant fd phages.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3389-1_31
PMID: 27076317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2003 Jun;11(3):238-42.

[A new method for construction of EGFP-labled recombinant adenovirus containing 
hVEGF(165) and its property in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhong ZD(1), Zou P, Huang SA, Hu ZB, Liu LB, Lu YP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, China.

By using AdEasy system, which is based on the homologous recombination in 
bacteria, an EGFP labled recombinant adenovirus vector containing hVEGF(165) was 
generated quickly and its property was studied in vitro. First, hVEGF(165) 
coding sequence was subcloned into the shuttle plasmid pAdTrack-CMV, then 
linearized and cotransferred with adenoviral backbone vector pAdEasy-1 into E. 
coli strain BJ(5183). After positive kanamycin-resistant colony was picked up, 
the recombinant adenoviral plasmid was identified by restriction analysis with 
PacI and transfected into HEK 293 cells to assembly replication-defective 
adenovirus Ad-EGFP/hVEGF(165). The further amplified recombinant adenoviruses 
were purified by CsCl banding at 32,000 rpm for 18 to 24 hours. Electron 
microscopy and PCR were performed for testing the recombinant adenovirus. The 
results showed that the purified particles were homogenous hexagon with a high 
titer up to 2 x 10(12)pfu/ml. An amplified band of 540 bp fragment demonstrated 
the successful insert of hVEGF(165). Under fluorescence microscopy, the 
expression of EGFP was easily detected in HEK 293 and other target cells. The 
maximal stimulating effect on the proliferation of hUVEC was obtained when the 
given multiplicity of infection (MOI) of Ad-EGFP/hVEGF(165) was 100. The rate of 
EGFP positive mouse bone marrow mononuclear cells analysed by flow cytometry was 
27.3% after 24 hour-incubation with Ad-EGFP/hVEGF(165) (MOI = 100), and the 
expression of hVEGF(165) protein in the conditioned medium was 1385 +/- 332 
pg/10(6) cells. It is concluded that the construction of adenovirus vector by 
homologous recombination in bacteria using AdEasy system can be quickly and 
easily performed, and the prepared high titer of Ad-EGFP/hVEGF(165) is an 
efficient helpful vector to transfer genes into target cells, all of which make 
the further in vivo experiments with VEGF(165) possible.

PMID: 12844403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Di Yi Jun Yi Da Xue Xue Bao. 2003 Jun;23(6):538-41, 545.

[Construction and identification of the cDNA phage expression library for human 
colorectal cancer antigens].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu YH(1), Zhang ZS, Zhong D, Wu JB, Dan HL, Yang XL, Yang XQ, Chen XQ, Lai ZS, 
Xiao B.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Digestive Diseases of PLA, Nanfang Hospital, First Military 
Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China. liuyuhu@fimmu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To construct a cDNA phage expression library for human colorectal 
carcinoma antigens.
METHODS: After the total RNA was extracted from human colorectal cancer tissues, 
the single-strand and double-strand cDNA were synthesized through reverse 
transcriptase PCR and long-distance PCR, with the cDNA fragments smaller than 
500 bp removed and the remaining cDNA combined with the right and left arms of 
dephosphorylated lambdaTriplEx2 phage vector. The recombinant phage were then 
packaged in vitro by MaxPlax Packaging extract, and a small portion of the 
packaged phage was used to infect E.coli XL1-Blue. Titer measurement was 
performed so as to determine the capacity of the library. SfiI restriction 
endonucleases was used to cut the recombined phage DNA in order to identify the 
size of inserted cDNA.
RESULTS: The constructed cDNA phage expression library for human colorectal 
cancer antigens consisted of 2.39 x 10(6) pfu/ml bacteriophages with a 
recombination rate of 97.5% and the length of the inserted cDNA fragment ranged 
from 600 to 4,000 bp with an average of 1,400 bp.
CONCLUSION: The cDNA phage expression library of human colorectal cancer 
antigens is successfully constructed to meet the currently recognized standards, 
and can be well applicable in screening cDNA-cloned genes of human colorectal 
cancer-associated antigens by immunoscreening.

PMID: 12810369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2008 Nov;48(11):1537-42.

[Expression, purification and crystallization of a truncated Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae diadenosion 5',5'''-P1,P4 -tetraphosphate phosphorylase I].

[Article in Chinese]

Li W(1), Zhang J, Xu N, Zhou C, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China. lwz@mail.tongji.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To obtain the crystal of 5',5'''-P1,P4-tetraphosphate phosphorylase I 
(Apal) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for X-ray crystal structure and function 
analysis.
METHODS: We amplified the coding region of an N-terminally truncated version of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae diadenosion 5',5'''-P1,P4-tetraphosphate phosphorylase 
I (Apaldnl6) , and cloned it into the pET28 derived expression vector. After 
having screened the recombinant plasmids by PCR and confirmed them by DNA 
sequencing, we transformed a positive recombinant plasmid into the Escherichia 
coli BL21(DE3) cells for efficient expression. Then the expression and 
solubility of the recombinant Apaldnl6 protein were analyzed by SDS-PAGE after 
proper concentration of IPTG induction. Following that, we collected the soluble 
Apaldnl6 protein and purified it to homogeneity by sequential Ni-NTA affinity 
chromatography and Superdex 75 gel filtration, and then detected the purity and 
molecular weight of the desired protein by SDS-PAGE and mass spectrometry . In 
addition, we screened the crystallization conditions of Apaldnl6 with Hampton 
Research kits using the hanging drop vapor diffusion method.
RESULTS: We efficiently expressed an N-terminally truncated Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae diadenosion 5',5'''-P1, P4-tetraphosphate phosphorylase I in 
Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The recombinant protein was partially soluble and 
was purified to homogeneity with a single band of approximately 36 kDa after 
SDS-PAGE. Mass spectrometry analysis further confirmed the purity and intactness 
of the recombinant protein.Moreover, we obtained the needle crystals of Apaldnl6 
by hanging drop vapor diffusion method.
CONCLUSION: Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) is an efficient expression system for 
producing enough quantity of Apaldnl6 protein. The purified recombinant Apaldnl6 
protein is suitable for crystallization and further structural investigation.

PMID: 19149172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Wei Sheng Yan Jiu. 2005 May;34(3):289-92.

[Expression and assay in vitro of phage single chain antibody against 
nucleoprotein of influenza virus A type].

[Article in Chinese]

Fang SS(1), Zhao YM, He JF, Liu T, Liu J, Zhao S.

Author information:
(1)South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510642, China.

OBJECTIVE: To expression the phage single chain antibody against nucleoprotein 
of influenza virus A type in E. coli strain HB2151 by screening the positive 
clone from the phage antibody library against nucleoprotein, which will prepare 
for the construction of fast leak kit of Influenza virus A type.
METHODS: The positive clone ratio in the phage antibody library was enriched by 
three-round continual solid panning, ELISA, SDS-PAGE and Western-blot methods 
were used to analyze the protein secreted into the supemants and periplasmic. 
Affinity chromatography was used to purified the protein expressed in 
periplasmic and the titer was also analyzed using ELISA method.
RESULTS: 10 clones were screened from96 clones and among the 10, there were 3 
stronger positive with OD450nm value of 0.469, 0.582 and 0.507, respectively. 
The phage single chain antibody against Influenza virus A type was primary 
expressed in periplasmic. The ELISA results were positive even if the single 
chain antibody purified by affinity chromatography was diluted 4096 folds.
CONCLUSION: Using phage antibody library technique, phage single antibody 
against nucleoprotein of influenza virus A type was preliminary expressed in E. 
coli.

PMID: 16111032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. Acta Virol. 2020;64(3):380-385. doi: 10.4149/av_2020_308.

The prokaryotic expression, polyclonal antibody preparation, and subcellular 
localization of the transmembrane protein NS2A of the duck Tembusu virus.

Jiang B, Zhang W, Liu P, Yang C, Wang M, Jia R, Zhu D, Liu M, Yang Q, Wu Y, Zhao 
X, Cheng A, Chen S.

Duck Tembusu virus (DTMUV) is a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA arbovirus, 
belonging to the genus Flavivirus, the family Flaviviridae. As a transmembrane 
protein, non-structural protein 2A (NS2A) plays an important role in virion 
assembly, replication complex and antagonizing host immune response. Since NS2A 
protein contains many hydrophobic amino acids, it is hard to gain the 
full-length protein of NS2A for prokaryotic expression. Therefore, to make a 
deep study, prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of 
truncated DTMUV NS2A was performed. The truncated NS2A gene (178-450 bp) was 
obtained, and sub-cloned into the prokaryotic vector pGEX-4T-1 
(pGEX-4T-1-NS2A178-450bp). Subsequently, the recombinant GST-NS2A60-150aa 
protein was successfully expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) with the induction by 
0.3 mmol/l isopropyl β-D-thiogalactoside (IPTG) for 6 h at 37°C. The 
GST-NS2A60-150aa protein was extracted from the gel. The BALB/c mice were 
immunized with the purified recombinant NS2A protein to prepare polyclonal 
antibodies against the truncated NS2A protein. The titer of the polyclonal 
antibodies, determined by ELISA analysis, was 1:128,000. The specificity of the 
polyclonal antibodies (mPAb-DTMUV-NS2A60-150aa) were verified by Western blot 
analysis. Furthermore, the indirect immunofluorescence (IFA) was performed to 
explore the subcellular localization of NS2A. NS2A protein was, in the 
transfected cells, located mainly around nucleus in the endoplasmatic reticulum. 
Taken together, our study provided a useful tool for the further exploration of 
the biological functions and molecular mechanism of DTMUV NS2A. Keywords: duck 
Tembusu virus; non-structural protein 2A; prokaryotic expression; polyclonal 
antibodies; subcellular location.

DOI: 10.4149/av_2020_308
PMID: 32985208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2007 Dec;1774(12):1536-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2007.09.012. Epub 2007 Oct 4.

Transport proteins PotD and Crr of Escherichia coli, novel fusion partners for 
heterologous protein expression.

Han KY(1), Seo HS, Song JA, Ahn KY, Park JS, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-713, South Korea.

The Escherichia coli proteome response to the stressor GdnHCl was analyzed 
through 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). We identified PotD 
(spermidine/putrescine-binding periplasmic protein) and Crr [glucose-specific 
phosphotransferase (PTS) enzyme IIA component] as a stress-responsive protein. 
Even under a stress situation where the total number of soluble proteins 
decreased by about 10%, 3.5- and 2.2-fold increase was observed in the synthesis 
of PotD and Crr, respectively. As fusion partners, PotD and Crr dramatically 
increased the solubility of many aggregation-prone heterologous proteins [e.g. 
human minipro-insulin (mp-INS), human epidermal growth factor (EGF), human 
prepro-ghrelin (ppGRN), human interleukin-2(hIL-2), human activation induced 
cytidine deaminase (AID), human glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(448-585)), 
Pseudomonas putida cutinase (CUT), human ferritin light chain (hFTN-L), human 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and cold autoinflammatory 
syndrome1 protein (NALP3) Nacht domain (NACHT)] in the E. coli cytoplasm. 
Presumably PotD and Crr were very effective in shielding interactive surfaces of 
heterologous proteins associated with non-specific protein-protein interactions 
leading to the formation of inclusion bodies most likely due to intrinsic high 
folding efficiency, chaperone-like activity, or a combination of both factors. 
Both the stress-induced proteins were well suited for the production of a 
biologically active fusion mutant of P. putida cutinase that can be expected to 
be of biotechnological and commercial interest.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2007.09.012
PMID: 17974510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2011 Apr;30(2):169-73. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0095.

Generation and characterization of antibody against porcine interleukin-18.

Suo S(1), Ren X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northeast Agricultural University, Xiangfang District, Harbin, China.

The gene-encoding mature porcine interleukin-18 (pIL-18) was amplified by PCR 
and cloned into a prokaryotic expression vector pET-30a(+). The resulting 
recombinant plasmid pET-30a-pIL-18 was transformed into Escherichia coli. 
Expression of recombinant pIL-18 protein was induced by 1 mM isopropyl 
β-D-thiogalactoside at 37°C. The purified recombinant protein was used to 
generate a hyperimmune antiserum in a rabbit. The anti-pIL-18 serum was 
evaluated for its specificity and titer through indirect enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. The specific reactivity of the anti-pIL-18 antibody was 
further confirmed by Western blot and immunofluorescence assays. Moreover, the 
pIL-18 was able to stimulate the proliferation of pig peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells in vitro, indicating it may have certain biological activity.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0095
PMID: 21529290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Feb 21;21(4):1465. doi: 10.3390/ijms21041465.

Secretory Production of Functional Grouper Type I Interferon from Epinephelus 
septemfasciatus in Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis.

Lin HJ(1), Xiao Joe JT(2)(3), Lu WJ(1), Huang MY(4), Sun TH(1), Lin SP(1), Li 
YC(1), Tsui YC(1), Lu MW(5), Victor Lin HT(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung 20224, 
Taiwan.
(2)Doctoral Degree Program in Marine Biotechnology, The College of Life 
Sciences, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung 20224, Taiwan.
(3)Doctoral Degree Program in Marine Biotechnology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 
11529, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Aquaculture, Fisheries Research Institute, Council of 
Agriculture, No. 199, Hou-Ih Road, Keelung 20246, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Aquaculture, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung 20224, 
Taiwan.
(6)Center of Excellence for the Oceans, National Taiwan Ocean University, 
Keelung 20224, Taiwan.

Nervous necrosis virus (NNV) results in high mortality rates of infected marine 
fish worldwide. Interferons (IFNs) are cytokines in vertebrates that suppress 
viral replication and regulate immune responses. Heterologous overexpression of 
fish IFN in bacteria could be problematic because of protein solubility and loss 
of function due to protein misfolding. In this study, a protein model of the 
IFN-α of Epinephelus septemfasciatus was built based on comparative modeling. In 
addition, PelB and SacB signal peptides were fused to the N-terminus of E. 
septemfasciatus IFN-α for overexpression of soluble, secreted IFN in Escherichia 
coli (E-IFN) and Bacillus subtilis (B-IFN). Cytotoxicity tests indicated that 
neither recombinant grouper IFN-α were cytotoxic to a grouper head kidney cell 
line (GK). The GK cells stimulated with E-IFN and B-IFN exhibited elevated 
expression of antiviral Mx genes when compared with the control group. The NNV 
challenge experiments demonstrated that GK cells pretreated or co-treated with 
E-IFN and B-IFN individually had three times the cell survival rates of 
untreated cells, indicating the cytoprotective ability of our recombinant IFNs. 
These data provide a protocol for the production of soluble, secreted, and 
functional grouper IFN of high purity, which may be applied to aquaculture 
fisheries for antiviral infection.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21041465
PMCID: PMC7073146
PMID: 32098104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


1139. Cytotechnology. 2000 Feb;32(2):87-92. doi: 10.1023/A:1008166310368.

High-level expression of a foreign gene by a recombinant baculovirus with an 
expanded host range.

Kim HS(1), Woo SD, Kim WJ, Choi JY, Kang SK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Biology and Chemistry, College of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, Seoul National University, Suwon, 441-744, Korea.

The usefulness of host range expanded viruses as an expressionvector system was 
investigated by following the expression ofthe E. coli lacZ gene. The host range 
expanded recombinantviruses were obtained from Sf-21 or BmN-4 cells coinfected 
withAutographa californica and Bombyx mori nuclearpolyhedrosis viruses. Among 
the host range expanded viruses,RecB-8 and RecS-B6 have similar enzyme digestion 
profiles butdifferent infection characteristics in cells. Therefore, tostudy the 
foreign gene expression efficiency of these twoviruses, we constructed 
recombinant viruses RecB8-LacZ andRecSB6-LacZ containing the lacZ gene instead 
of the polyhedringene. Also, the host range expanded recombinant AcNPV, 
Bac-BH,containing lacZ gene in the polyhedrin gene locus was constructedby 
substitution of the 0.6 kb region within the helicase gene ofBacPAK6 with that 
of BmNPV. beta-Galactosidase expressionefficiency by these viruses were 
determined and compared in Sf-21and BmN-4 cells. The result showed that Bac-BH 
has highexpression efficiency only in Sf-21 cells, whereas RecB8-LacZhas high 
expression efficiency both in Sf-21 and BmN-4 cells.Also, in BmN-4 cells, 
beta-galactosidase expressionefficiency of RecB8-LacZ was higher than that of 
recombinantBmNPV (BmK1-LacZ containing lacZ gene in polyhedrin gene locus).In 
addition, the expression efficiency was not correlated withvirus titer.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1008166310368
PMCID: PMC3449685
PMID: 19002970


1140. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2010 Mar;11(1):41-9. doi: 10.1007/s10969-009-9077-8. 
Epub 2010 Jan 13.

The optimization of in vitro high-throughput chemical lysis of Escherichia coli. 
Application to ACP domain of the polyketide synthase ppsC from Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis.

Listwan P(1), Pédelacq JD, Lockard M, Bell C, Terwilliger TC, Waldo GS.

Author information:
(1)Bioscience Division, MS-M888, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Bikini Atoll 
Rd, SM30, Los Alamos, NM 87545, USA. plistwan@lanl.gov

Protein production in Escherichia coli involves high-level expression in a 
culture, followed by harvesting of the cells and finally their disruption, or 
lysis, to release the expressed proteins. We compare three high-throughput 
chemical lysis methods to sonication, using a robotic platform and methodologies 
developed in our laboratory [1]. Under the same expression conditions, all lysis 
methods varied in the degree of released soluble proteins. With a set of 96 test 
proteins, we used our split GFP to quantify the soluble and insoluble protein 
fractions after lysis. Both the amount of soluble protein and the percentage 
recovered in the soluble fraction using SoluLyse were well correlated with 
sonication. Two other methods, Bugbuster and lysozyme, did not correlate well 
with sonication. Considering the effects of lysis methods on protein solubility 
is especially important when accurate protein solubility measurements are 
needed, for example, when testing adjuvants, growth media, temperature, or when 
establishing the effects of truncation or sequence variation on protein 
stability.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-009-9077-8
PMCID: PMC2855807
PMID: 20069378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 29;8(11):e81753. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081753. 
eCollection 2013.

Heterologous expression of mycobacterial Esx complexes in Escherichia coli for 
structural studies is facilitated by the use of maltose binding protein fusions.

Arbing MA(1), Chan S, Harris L, Kuo E, Zhou TT, Ahn CJ, Nguyen L, He Q, Lu J, 
Menchavez PT, Shin A, Holton T, Sawaya MR, Cascio D, Eisenberg D.

Author information:
(1)UCLA-DOE Institute for Genomics and Proteomics, University of California Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.

The expression of heteroligomeric protein complexes for structural studies often 
requires a special coexpression strategy. The reason is that the solubility and 
proper folding of each subunit of the complex requires physical association with 
other subunits of the complex. The genomes of pathogenic mycobacteria encode 
many small protein complexes, implicated in bacterial fitness and pathogenicity, 
whose characterization may be further complicated by insolubility upon 
expression in Escherichia coli, the most common heterologous protein expression 
host. As protein fusions have been shown to dramatically affect the solubility 
of the proteins to which they are fused, we evaluated the ability of maltose 
binding protein fusions to produce mycobacterial Esx protein complexes. A single 
plasmid expression strategy using an N-terminal maltose binding protein fusion 
to the CFP-10 homolog proved effective in producing soluble Esx protein 
complexes, as determined by a small-scale expression and affinity purification 
screen, and coupled with intracellular proteolytic cleavage of the maltose 
binding protein moiety produced protein complexes of sufficient purity for 
structural studies. In comparison, the expression of complexes with 
hexahistidine affinity tags alone on the CFP-10 subunits failed to express in 
amounts sufficient for biochemical characterization. Using this strategy, six 
mycobacterial Esx complexes were expressed, purified to homogeneity, and 
subjected to crystallization screening and the crystal structures of the 
Mycobacterium abscessus EsxEF, M. smegmatis EsxGH, and M. tuberculosis EsxOP 
complexes were determined. Maltose binding protein fusions are thus an effective 
method for production of Esx complexes and this strategy may be applicable for 
production of other protein complexes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081753
PMCID: PMC3843698
PMID: 24312350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1142. Metab Eng. 2010 May;12(3):298-305. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2010.01.003. Epub 2010 
Feb 1.

Use of modular, synthetic scaffolds for improved production of glucaric acid in 
engineered E. coli.

Moon TS(1), Dueber JE, Shiue E, Prather KL.

Author information:
(1)NSF Synthetic Biology Engineering Research Center (SynBERC), USA.

The field of metabolic engineering has the potential to produce a wide variety 
of chemicals in both an inexpensive and ecologically-friendly manner. 
Heterologous expression of novel combinations of enzymes promises to provide new 
or improved synthetic routes towards a substantially increased diversity of 
small molecules. Recently, we constructed a synthetic pathway to produce 
d-glucaric acid, a molecule that has been deemed a "top-value added chemical" 
from biomass, starting from glucose. Limiting flux through the pathway is the 
second recombinant step, catalyzed by myo-inositol oxygenase (MIOX), whose 
activity is strongly influenced by the concentration of the myo-inositol 
substrate. To synthetically increase the effective concentration of 
myo-inositol, polypeptide scaffolds were built from protein-protein interaction 
domains to co-localize all three pathway enzymes in a designable complex as 
previously described (Dueber et al., 2009). Glucaric acid titer was found to be 
strongly affected by the number of scaffold interaction domains targeting 
upstream Ino1 enzymes, whereas the effect of increased numbers of MIOX-targeted 
domains was much less significant. We determined that the scaffolds directly 
increased the specific MIOX activity and that glucaric acid titers were strongly 
correlated with MIOX activity. Overall, we observed an approximately 5-fold 
improvement in product titers over the non-scaffolded control, and a 50% 
improvement over the previously reported highest titers. These results further 
validate the utility of these synthetic scaffolds as a tool for metabolic 
engineering.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2010.01.003
PMID: 20117231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 16;8(12):e83579. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083579. 
eCollection 2013.

Tat peptide-mediated soluble expression of the membrane protein LSECtin-CRD in 
Escherichia coli.

Dong G(1), Wang C(1), Wu Y(2), Cong J(1), Cheng L(1), Wang M(1), Zhao P(1), Tang 
L(3), Zhang C(2), Wu K(1).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing, P. R. China.
(2)Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Proteomics, 
Cognitive and Mental Health Research Center of PLA, Beijing, P. R. China.
(3)Beijing Institute of Radiation Medicine, Department of Genomics and 
Proteomics, Chinese Human Genome Center, Beijing, P. R. China.

The human liver and lymph node sinusoidal endothelial cell C-type lectin 
(hLSECtin), a type II integral membrane protein, containing a Ca(2+)-dependent 
carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD), has a well-established biological 
activity, yet its three-dimensional structure is unknown due to low expression 
yields and aggregation into inclusion bodies. Previous study has demonstrated 
that the HIV-1 virus-encoded Tat peptide ('YGRKKRRQRRR') can increase the yields 
and the solubility of heterologous proteins. However, whether the Tat peptide 
could promote the high-yield and soluble expression of membrane proteins in 
Escherichia coli is not known. Therefore, the prokaryotic expression vector 
pET28b-Tat-hLSECtin-CRD (using pET28b and pET28b-hLSECtin-CRD as controls) was 
constructed, and transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells and induced with 
isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactoside (IPTG) followed with identifying by SDS-PAGE and 
Western blot. Subsequently, the bacterial subcellular structure, in which 
overexpressed the heterologous proteins Tat-hLSECtin-CRD and Tat-free 
hLSECtin-CRD, was analyzed by transmission electron microscope (TEM) 
respectively, and the mannose-binding activity of Tat-hLSECtin-CRD was also 
determined. Expectedly, the solubility of Tat-LSECtin-CRD significantly 
increased compared to Tat-free LSECtin-CRD (**p < 0.01) with prolonged time, and 
the Tat-LSECtin-CRD had a significant mannose-binding activity. The subcellular 
structure analysis indicated that the bacterial cells overexpressed 
Tat-hLSECtin-CRD exhibited denser region compared with controls, while dot 
denser region aggregated in the two ends of bacterial cells overexpressed 
Tat-free hLSECtin-CRD. This study provided a novel method for improving the 
soluble expression of membrane proteins in prokaryotic systems by fusion with 
the Tat peptide, which may be potentially expanded to the expression of other 
membrane proteins.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083579
PMCID: PMC3865297
PMID: 24358298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1144. J Virol Methods. 2006 Nov;137(2):229-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2006.06.020. 
Epub 2006 Jul 28.

Expression of a part of the Potato virus A non-structural protein P3 in 
Escherichia coli for the purpose of antibody preparation and P3 immunodetection 
in plant material.

Nováková S(1), Klaudiny J, Kollerová E, Subr ZW.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Virology, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská cesta 9, 845 45 
Bratislava, Slovakia. viruslno@savba.sk

The N-terminal part of the Potato virus A (PVA) P3 protein was cloned into two 
E. coli fusion expression systems. An overexpression of the P3 fragment fused 
with thioredoxin was observed between 2 and 21 h after induction. The protein 
formed insoluble inclusions. Decreasing the cultivation temperature did not 
enhance its solubility. To obtain antigen for antibody preparation, inclusions 
were concentrated and purified by sucrose gradient centrifugation, and subjected 
to SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The band specific for the protein was 
excised from the gel and used for rabbit immunization. Obtained antibody tested 
positive with high specificity in immunoblots of expressed PVA P3 fused with 
either thioredoxin or GST. The antibody was also applied for the detection of P3 
protein in plant material by immunoblot. Previous plant sap concentration was 
essential for most samples. Three concentration methods were tested: simple 
centrifugal size-exclusion filtration, the same preceded with high-speed 
centrifugation at 250,000 x g, and differential ammonium sulfate precipitation. 
The last approach was the most convenient. Plants tested included PVA 
P3-transgenic tobacco lines as well as PVA-infected wild-type tobacco. In all 
cases, mature P3 with a molecular mass of 40 kDa was detected.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2006.06.020
PMID: 16876262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Nov;115:76-82. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.07.007. Epub 
2015 Jul 18.

Expression and purification of Canis interferon α in Escherichia coli using 
different tags.

Yang F(1), Pan Y(1), Chen Y(1), Tan S(1), Jin M(1), Wu Z(1), Huang J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, East China Normal University, Shanghai 200241, PR 
China.
(2)School of Life Science, East China Normal University, Shanghai 200241, PR 
China. Electronic address: jhuang@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.

The potent and broad activity of Canis interferon α (CaIFNα) makes it an 
attractive candidate for the treatment of many viral diseases of dogs. Here, we 
fused CaIFNα to three different protein tags: thioredoxin (Trx), glutathione 
S-transferase (GST), and NusA (Nus), to facilitate its expression and 
purification in Escherichia coli. The Trx-CaIFNα and GST-CaIFNα fusion proteins 
formed inclusion bodies, while the Nus-CaIFNα protein was soluble when expressed 
at low temperatures. Trx-CaIFNα was purified from inclusion bodies and refolded, 
while Nus-CaIFNα was purified under native conditions. The purity of Trx-CaIFNα 
and Nus-CaIFNα was greater than 90%, and their yields were 74.8% and 6.5%, 
respectively. Both Trx-CaIFNα and Nus-CaIFNα had antiviral activity in vitro. 
Their anti-viral activity was 1.09±0.47×10(14) and 2.25±0.87×10(12) U/mol, 
respectively, on Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. Both purification methods had 
advantages and disadvantages. A greater amount of Trx-CaIFNα was obtained, but 
refolding was required to obtain active protein. In contrast, soluble Nus-CaIFNα 
did not require refolding, which saved time and materials. However, Nus-CaIFNα, 
which contained a larger tag, had lower activity than Trx-CaIFNα. In general, we 
provided two protocols to obtain large amounts of CaIFNα with high antiviral 
activity. These protocols may promote the clinical development of CaIFNα in 
treating viral diseases in dog.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.07.007
PMID: 26196501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2010 Sep;76(18):6277-85. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01274-10. Epub 
2010 Jul 16.

Yersinia enterocolitica infection and tcaA-dependent killing of Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Spanier B(1), Starke M, Higel F, Scherer S, Fuchs TM.

Author information:
(1)Zentralinstitut für Ernährungs und Lebensmittelforschung, Abteilung 
Mikrobiologie, Technische Universität München, 85354 Freising, Germany.

Caenorhabditis elegans is a validated model to study bacterial pathogenicity. We 
report that Yersinia enterocolitica strains W22703 (biovar 2, serovar O:9) and 
WA314 (biovar 1B, serovar O:8) kill C. elegans when feeding on the pathogens for 
at least 15 min before transfer to the feeding strain Escherichia coli OP50. The 
killing by Yersinia enterocolitica requires viable bacteria and, in contrast to 
that by Yersinia pestis and Yersinia pseudotuberculosis strains, is biofilm 
independent. The deletion of tcaA encoding an insecticidal toxin resulted in an 
OP50-like life span of C. elegans, indicating an essential role of TcaA in the 
nematocidal activity of Y. enterocolitica. TcaA alone is not sufficient for 
nematocidal activity because E. coli DH5alpha overexpressing TcaA did not result 
in a reduced C. elegans life span. Spatial-temporal analysis of C. elegans 
infected with green fluorescent protein-labeled Y. enterocolitica strains showed 
that Y. enterocolitica colonizes the nematode intestine, leading to an extreme 
expansion of the intestinal lumen. By low-dose infection with W22703 or DH5alpha 
followed by transfer to E. coli OP50, proliferation of Y. enterocolitica, but 
not E. coli, in the intestinal lumen of the nematode was observed. The titer of 
W22703 cells within the worm increased to over 10(6) per worm 4 days after 
infection while a significantly lower number of a tcaA knockout mutant was 
recovered. A strong expression of tcaA was observed during the first 5 days of 
infection. Y. enterocolitica WA314 (biovar 1B, serovar O:8) mutant strains 
lacking the yadA, inv, yopE, and irp1 genes known to be important for virulence 
in mammals were not attenuated or only slightly attenuated in their toxicity 
toward the nematode, suggesting that these factors do not play a significant 
role in the colonization and persistence of this pathogen in nematodes. In 
summary, this study supports the hypothesis that C. elegans is a natural host 
and nutrient source of Y. enterocolitica.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01274-10
PMCID: PMC2937509
PMID: 20639372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. PLoS One. 2020 Nov 12;15(11):e0242109. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0242109. 
eCollection 2020.

Improved soluble expression and use of recombinant human renalase.

Morrison CS(1), Paskaleva EE(2), Rios MA(1), Beusse TR(1), Blair EM(3), Lin 
LQ(1), Hu JR(4), Gorby AH(4), Dodds DR(5), Armiger WB(5), Dordick JS(1)(4)(6), 
Koffas MAG(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, New York, United States of America.
(2)Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies, Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, United States of America.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 
United States of America.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, 
New York, United States of America.
(5)BiochemInsights, Malvern, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, 
New York, United States of America.

Electrochemical bioreactor systems have enjoyed significant attention in the 
past few decades, particularly because of their applications to biobatteries, 
artificial photosynthetic systems, and microbial electrosynthesis. A key 
opportunity with electrochemical bioreactors is the ability to employ cofactor 
regeneration strategies critical in oxidative and reductive enzymatic and 
cell-based biotransformations. Electrochemical cofactor regeneration presents 
several advantages over other current cofactor regeneration systems, such as 
chemoenzymatic multi-enzyme reactions, because there is no need for a 
sacrificial substrate and a recycling enzyme. Additionally, process monitoring 
is simpler and downstream processing is less costly. However, the direct 
electrochemical reduction of NAD(P)+ on a cathode may produce adventitious side 
products, including isomers of NAD(P)H that can act as potent competitive 
inhibitors to NAD(P)H-requiring enzymes such as dehydrogenases. To overcome this 
limitation, we examined how nature addresses the adventitious formation of 
isomers of NAD(P)H. Specifically, renalases are enzymes that catalyze the 
oxidation of 1,2- and 1,6-NAD(P)H to NAD(P)+, yielding an effective recycling of 
unproductive NAD(P)H isomers. We designed several mutants of recombinant human 
renalase isoform 1 (rhRen1), expressed them in E. coli BL21(DE3) to enhance 
protein solubility, and evaluated the activity profiles of the renalase variants 
against NAD(P)H isomers. The potential for rhRen1 to be employed in engineering 
applications was then assessed in view of the enzyme's stability upon 
immobilization. Finally, comparative modeling was performed to assess the 
underlying reasons for the enhanced solubility and activity of the mutant 
enzymes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0242109
PMCID: PMC7660482
PMID: 33180865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We would like to declare that BioChemInsights, 
Inc. is a commercial affiliate to this work. U.S. patent application number 
16/084579 was filed with the U.S. patent office on 2019-03-14 for Improved 
method for using electrochemical bioreactor module with recovery of cofactor. 
The applicant listed for this patent is BioChemInsights, Inc. Invention is 
credited to authors CSM, DRD, WBA, and MAGK. This affiliation does not alter our 
adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


1148. FEBS Lett. 2018 May;592(9):1554-1564. doi: 10.1002/1873-3468.13046. Epub 2018 
Apr 16.

Codon harmonization - going beyond the speed limit for protein expression.

Mignon C(1), Mariano N(1), Stadthagen G(1), Lugari A(1), Lagoutte P(1), Donnat 
S(1), Chenavas S(2), Perot C(2), Sodoyer R(3), Werle B(1).

Author information:
(1)Protein and Expression System Engineering Unit, BIOASTER, Lyon, France.
(2)CAD4Bio, Montbonnot, France.
(3)OTECI, Lyon, France.

Codon usage distribution has been soundly used by nature to fine tune protein 
biogenesis. Alteration of the mRNA structure or sequential scheduling of codons 
can profoundly affect translation, thus altering protein yield, functionality, 
solubility, and proper folding. Building on these observations, here, we present 
an evaluation of different recently designed algorithms of sequence adaptation 
based on Codon Adaptation Index (CAI) profiling. The first algorithm globally 
harmonizes synonymous codons in the original sequence in full respect to the 
heterologous expression host codon usage. The second recodes the sequence in 
accordance with the native sequence CAI profile. Our data, generated on three 
model proteins, highlights the importance to consider gene recoding as a 
parameter itself for recombinant protein expression improvement.

© 2018 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1002/1873-3468.13046
PMID: 29624661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Chembiochem. 2011 Jul 4;12(10):1529-35. doi: 10.1002/cbic.201100078. Epub 2011 
May 12.

Manipulating the expression rate and enantioselectivity of an epoxide hydrolase 
by using directed evolution.

Reetz MT(1), Zheng H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Synthetic Organic Chemistry, Max-Planck-Institut für 
Kohlenforschung, Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany. reetz@mpi-muelheim.mpg.de

We describe here a strategy to improve the expression efficiency and 
enantioselectivity of Aspergillus niger epoxide hydrolase (ANEH) by directed 
evolution. Based on a blue-colony screening system using the LacZα 
(β-galactosidase α peptide) complementation solubility reporter, several ANEH 
variants out of 15 000 transformants from a random-mutagenesis library were 
identified that show improved recombinant expression in E. coli. Among them, 
Pro221Ser was subsequently used as a template for iterative saturation 
mutagenesis (ISM) at sites around the ANEH binding pocket. Following four rounds 
of ISM, a highly enantioselective mutant was identified that catalyzes the 
hydrolytic kinetic resolution of racemic glycidyl phenyl ether with a 
selectivity factor of E=160 in favor of the (S)-diol compared to WT ANEH 
characterized by E=4.6. Expression of this mutant is 50 times higher than that 
of WT ANEH. It also serves as an excellent stereoselective catalyst in the 
hydrolytic kinetic resolution and desymmetrization of several other structurally 
diverse epoxides.

Copyright © 2011 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/cbic.201100078
PMID: 21567703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 Feb 15;8(2):391-402. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00429. Epub 
2019 Feb 5.

Redirecting Metabolic Flux via Combinatorial Multiplex CRISPRi-Mediated 
Repression for Isopentenol Production in Escherichia coli.

Tian T(1)(2), Kang JW(1)(2)(3), Kang A(1)(2), Lee TS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute , 5885 Hollis Street , Emeryville , California 
94608 , United States.
(2)Biological Systems & Engineering Division , Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory , Berkeley , California 94720 , United States.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering , University of California , Berkeley , 
California 94720 , United States.

CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) via target guide RNA (gRNA) arrays and a 
deactivated Cas9 (dCas9) protein has been shown to simultaneously repress 
expression of multiple genomic DNA loci. By knocking down endogenous genes in 
competing pathways, CRISPRi technology can be utilized to redirect metabolic 
flux toward target metabolite. In this study, we constructed a CRISPRi-mediated 
multiplex repression system to silence transcription of several endogenous genes 
to increase precursor availability in a heterologous isopentenol biosynthesis 
pathway. To identify genomic knockdown targets in competing pathways, we first 
designed a single-gRNA library with 15 individual targets, where 3 gRNA 
cassettes targeting gene asnA, prpE, and gldA increased isopentenol titer by 
18-24%. We then combined the 3 single-gRNA cassettes into a two- or three-gRNA 
array and observed up to 98% enhancement in production by fine-tuning the 
repression level through titrating dCas9 expression. Our strategy shows that 
multiplex combinatorial knockdown of competing genes using CRISPRi can increase 
production of the target metabolite, while the repression level needs to be 
adjusted to balance the metabolic network and achieve the maximum titer 
improvement.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00429
PMID: 30681833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2010 Sep;54(9):3618-24. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00161-10. 
Epub 2010 Jun 14.

Bile acids improve the antimicrobial effect of rifaximin.

Darkoh C(1), Lichtenberger LM, Ajami N, Dial EJ, Jiang ZD, DuPont HL.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Houston, TX, USA.

Diarrhea is one of the most common infirmities affecting international 
travelers, occurring in 20 to 50% of persons from industrialized countries 
visiting developing regions. Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is the most 
common causative agent and is isolated from approximately half of the cases of 
traveler's diarrhea. Rifaximin, a largely water-insoluble, nonabsorbable (<0.4%) 
antibiotic that inhibits bacterial RNA synthesis, is approved for use for the 
treatment of traveler's diarrhea caused by diarrheagenic E. coli. However, the 
drug has minimal effect on the bacterial flora or the infecting E. coli strain 
in the aqueous environment of the colon. The purpose of the present study was to 
evaluate the antimicrobial effect and bioavailability of rifaximin in aqueous 
solution in the presence and absence of physiologic concentrations of bile 
acids. The methods used included growth measurement of ETEC (strain H10407), 
rifaximin solubility measurements, total bacterial protein determination, and 
assessment of the functional activity of rifaximin by monitoring inhibition of 
bacterial beta-galactosidase expression. Solubility studies showed rifaximin to 
be 70- to 120-fold more soluble in bile acids (approximately 30% in 4 mM bile 
acids) than in aqueous solution. Addition of both purified bile acids and human 
bile to rifaximin at subinhibitory and inhibitory concentrations significantly 
improved the drug's anti-ETEC effect by 71% and 73%, respectively, after 4 h. 
This observation was confirmed by showing a decrease in the overall amount of 
total bacterial protein expressed during incubation of rifaximin plus bile 
acids. Rifaximin-treated samples containing bile acids inhibited the expression 
of ETEC beta-galactosidase at a higher magnitude than samples that did not 
contain bile acids. The study provides data showing that bile acids solubilize 
rifaximin on a dose-response basis, increasing the drug's bioavailability and 
antimicrobial effect. These observations suggest that rifaximin may be more 
effective in the treatment of infections in the small intestine, due to the 
higher concentration of bile in this region of the gastrointestinal tract than 
in the colon. The water insolubility of rifaximin is the likely explanation for 
the drug's minimal effects on colonic flora and fecal pathogens, despite in 
vitro susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00161-10
PMCID: PMC2934964
PMID: 20547807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Jan 22;508(4):1043-1049. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.11.170. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

Design and assessment of an active anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
single chain variable fragment (ScFv) with improved solubility.

Nautiyal K(1), Kibria MG(1), Akazawa-Ogawa Y(2), Hagihara Y(3), Kuroda Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 184-8588, Japan.
(2)Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology (AIST), 1-8-31, Midorigaoka, Ikeda, Osaka, 563-8577, 
Japan.
(3)Biotechnology Research Institute for Drug Discovery, National Institute of 
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), 1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, 305-8565, Japan.
(4)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, Tokyo, 184-8588, Japan. 
Electronic address: ykuroda@cc.tuat.ac.jp.

ScFv is emerging as a therapeutic alternative to the full-length monoclonal 
antibodies due to its small size and low production cost, but its low solubility 
remains a limiting factor toward wider use. Here, we increased the solubility of 
an Anti-epidermal growth factor receptor ScFv (Anti-EGFR ScFv) by attaching, a 
short 12-residue solubility enhancing peptide (SEP) tag at its C terminus. We 
first estimated the solubility increase by running 500-ns Brownian dynamics (BD) 
simulations. We then experimentally evaluated the predictions by producing 
recombinant Anti-EGFR ScFv with and without a SEP tag (called C9R) in E. coli. 
At 20 °C, ∼85% of Anti-EGFR ScFv-C9R expressed in the soluble fraction, whereas 
all of the Anti-EGFR ScFv remained in the insoluble fraction. The total yield of 
Anti-EGFR ScFv-C9R was 17.15 mg which was ∼3 times higher than that of Anti-EGFR 
ScFv refolded from the insoluble fraction. Static and dynamic light scattering 
demonstrated the higher solubility of the purified Anti-EGFR ScFv-C9R, and 
Circular Dichroism (CD) indicated its high thermal stability, whereas the 
untagged protein aggregated at 37 °C and pH 6. Finally, the binding activity of 
Anti-EGFR ScFv-C9R to EGFR was confirmed by surface plasmon resonance (SPR). 
Altogether, these results illustrate the improved biophysical and biochemical 
characteristics of Anti-EGFR ScFv-C9R and emphasize the potentials of SEP-tags 
for enhancing the solubility of aggregation-prone antibody fragments.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.11.170
PMID: 30551882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2021 Feb;86(2):190-196. doi: 10.1134/S0006297921020073.

Enhanced Solubility and One-Step Purification of Functional Dimeric 
Carboxypeptidase G2.

Khodakarami A(1), Dabirmanesh B(2), Asad S(3), Khaledi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, 14115, Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, 14115, Iran. dabirmanesh@modares.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, College of Science, University of Tehran, 
Tehran, 14155, Iran.

Carboxypeptidase G2 is a bacterial enzyme that catalyzes methotrexate conversion 
to its inactive forms which are then eliminated via a non-renal pathway in 
patients with renal disorders during a high-dose methotrexate administration. 
Due to the increasing demand of this enzyme, it was of interest to simplify its 
production process. For this reason, we developed a method for production and 
one-step purification of this enzyme using an intein-mediated system with a 
chitin-binding affinity tag. The carboxypeptidase G2 gene from Pseudomonas RS16 
was optimized, synthesized, cloned into the pTXB1 expression vector and finally 
transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The optimal condition for 
the enzyme soluble expression was achieved in 2×YT medium containing 1% glucose 
at 25°C for 30 h with 0.5 mM IPTG. The enzyme without intein was expressed as 
inclusion bodies indicating the importance of intein for the protein solubility. 
The expressed homodimer protein was purified to homogeneity on a chitin affinity 
column. The Km and kcat values of 6.5 µM and 4.57 s-1, respectively, were 
obtained for the purified enzyme. Gel filtration analysis indicated that the 
resulting recombinant protein was a dimer of 83 kDa. Fluorescence and circular 
dichroism spectroscopy confirmed the enzyme tertiary and secondary structures, 
respectively. The use of intein-mediated system provided the possibility of the 
one-step carboxypeptidase G2 purification, paving the way to the application of 
this enzyme in pharmaceutics.

DOI: 10.1134/S0006297921020073
PMID: 33832417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Biotechnol Prog. 2019 Sep;35(5):e2866. doi: 10.1002/btpr.2866. Epub 2019 Jun 25.

Heterologous expression, purification, and functional characterization of 
recombinant ovine angiotensinogen in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris.

Palanikumar I(1), Katla S(1), Tahara N(2), Yui M(2), Zhang R(3), Ebihara 
A(3)(4), Sivaprakasam S(1).

Author information:
(1)BioPAT Laboratory, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Guwahati, Assam, 
India.
(2)Graduate School of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu University, Gifu, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu University, Gifu, Japan.
(4)Center for Highly Advanced Integration of Nano and Life Sciences, Gifu 
University (G-CHAIN), Gifu, Japan.

Angiotensinogen (AGT), a glycosylated plasma noninhibitory serpin, serves as a 
precursor for angiotensin peptides which regulate blood pressure and electrolyte 
balance. AGT is specifically cleaved by renin to produce angiotensin-I, the 
first product of the angiotensin-processing cascade. Ovine angiotensinogen 
(oAGT) is considered an effective substrate for human renin and consequently 
finds application in clinical renin assays. In this study, oAGT was cloned into 
the genome of Pichia pastoris and expressed under the control of alcohol oxidase 
(AOX1) promoter for high-level production. Compared to the shake flask study, 
the high cell density cultivation in bioreactor resulted in multifold increase 
in oAGT titer (420 ± 9.26 mg/L), which is its highest reported titer to date. We 
purified recombinant oAGT to homogeneity using two chromatography steps. The 
characterization studies revealed oAGT underwent a two-state transition during 
thermal denaturation process as assessed by differential scanning fluorimetry, 
and the melting temperature (Tm ) of the purified oAGT from P. pastoris was 
48.3°C. Renin reactivity with recombinant oAGT from P. pastoris (0.51 nM 
angiotensin-I/min) was slightly lower than the renin reactivity for recombinant 
oAGT from Escherichia coli (0.67 nM angiotensin-I/min), possibly because of its 
mannosylated N-glycan content. Enhanced production of functionally active 
recombinant oAGT using P. pastoris expression system reported in this study 
envisage the effective utilization of oAGT in clinical studies related to renin 
in near future.

© 2019 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.2866
PMID: 31187608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Curr Protoc Protein Sci. 2003 May;Chapter 7:Unit 7.11. doi: 
10.1002/0471140864.ps0711s31.

Rapid screening of E. coli extracts by heteronuclear NMR.

Gronenborn AM(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Assessing whether a protein or protein complex is amenable to structural 
analysis is an important component in the structural genomics effort. In 
particular, if complete sets of structures for entire genomes are to be obtained 
within a reasonable time frame, high throughput methodologies for all steps 
along the way have to be developed. These days, cloning and expression systems 
are highly optimized and a variety of commercially available vectors can be 
used. However, heterologous proteins or protein domains expressed in bacteria 
may not be soluble or correctly folded, necessitating intricate solubilization 
and refolding schemes prior to structural or functional studies. NMR 
spectroscopy is an important tool for assessing the solubility, stability, and 
structural integrity of a gene product. It allows efficient evaluation of many 
variations of polypeptide length and sequence (without time- and labor-intensive 
purification/refolding procedures) using 1H-15N-HSQC spectroscopy of samples of 
15N-labeled proteins directly from crude E. coli extracts. In addition to 
screening for particular properties of the expressed protein alone, it is also 
possible to map intermolecular interactions such as ligand binding. In this 
unit, the basic methodology for bacterial growth, isotope labeling, and 
spectroscopic evaluation of the protein structure is provided.

DOI: 10.1002/0471140864.ps0711s31
PMID: 18429247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. J Huazhong Univ Sci Technolog Med Sci. 2006;26(3):325-8. doi: 
10.1007/BF02829565.

Construction and expression of human PTEN tumor suppressor gene recombinant 
adenovirus vector.

Chen Q(1), Wang C, Chen D, Chen J, Jiang C, Zheng H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, China.

The recombinant defective adenovirus vector carrying human PTEN tumor suppressor 
gene was constructed by using AdEasy-1 system and its expression was detected in 
human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-468. Human PTEN cDNA was cloned into 
adenovirus shuttle plasmid pAdTrack-CMV to generate a recombinant plasmid 
pAdTrack-CMV-PTEN, then homologeous recombination was carried out in the E. coli 
BJ5183 by contransforming linearized shuttle vector with adenovirus backbone 
plasmid pAdEasy-1. The newly recombined defective adenovirus vector Ad-PTEN 
containing green fluorescent protein (GFP) was packaged and propagated in 293 
cells. After being purified by cesium chloride gradient centrifugation, the 
adenovirus was transfected into human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-468 in 
vitro. The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein in infected human breast cancer 
cell line MDA-MB-468 was detected by RT-PCR and Western blot respectively. The 
recombinant defective adenovirus vector carrying PTEN gene was constructed 
successfully. The viral titer of purified adenovirus was 2. 5 X 10(10) pfu/mL, 
and about 70% breast cancer cells were infected with Ad-PTEN when multiplicity 
of infection (MOI) reached 50. The exogenous PTEN mRNA and protein were 
expressed in MDA-MB-468 cells infected with Ad-PTEN by RT-PCR and Western blot. 
The recombinant defective adenovirus vector of PTEN gene was constructed 
successfully using AdEasy-1 system rapidly, which paved a sound foundation for 
gene study of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02829565
PMID: 16961283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2010 Nov;162(6):1585-98. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-010-8940-1. Epub 2010 May 14.

Expression, high cell density culture and purification of recombinant EC-SOD in 
Escherichia coli.

Son YJ(1), Bae JY, Chong SH, Lee HS, Mo SH, Kim TY, Choe H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Research Institute for Biomacromolecules, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 388-1 PoongNap-dong, Songpa-goo, Seoul, 
South Korea.

Superoxide dismutase (SOD) catalyzes the dismutation of the biologically toxic 
superoxide anion into oxygen and hydrogen peroxide and is deployed by the immune 
system to kill invading microorganisms. Extracellular SOD (EC-SOD) is a copper- 
and zinc-containing glycoprotein found predominantly in the soluble 
extracellular compartment that consists of approximately 30-kDa subunits. Here, 
we purified recombinant EC-SOD3 (rEC-SOD) from Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) 
expressing a pET-SOD3-1 construct. Cells were cultured by high-density fed-batch 
fermentation to a final OD(600) of 51.8, yielding a final dry cell weight of 
17.6 g/L. rEC-SOD, which was expressed as an inclusion body, comprised 48.7% of 
total protein. rEC-SOD was refolded by a simple dilution refolding method and 
purified by cation-exchange and reverse-phase chromatography. The highly 
purified rEC-SOD thus obtained was a mixture of monomers and dimers, both of 
which were active. The molecular weights of monomeric and dimeric rEC-SOD were 
25,255 and 50,514 Da, respectively. The purified rEC-SOD had 4.3 EU/mg of 
endotoxin and the solubility of rEC-SOD was more than 80% between pH 7 and 10. 
In 2 L of fed-batch fermentation, 60 mg of EC-SOD (99.9% purity) could be 
produced and total activity was 330.24 U. The process established in this 
report, involving high-cell-density fermentation, simple dilution refolding, and 
purification with ion-exchange and reverse-phase chromatography, represents a 
commercially viable process for producing rEC-SOD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-010-8940-1
PMID: 20467833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Vaccine. 2011 Aug 5;29(34):5657-65. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.06.014. Epub 
2011 Jun 23.

Recombinant HA1 produced in E. coli forms functional oligomers and generates 
strain-specific SRID potency antibodies for pandemic influenza vaccines.

Khurana S(1), Larkin C, Verma S, Joshi MB, Fontana J, Steven AC, King LR, 
Manischewitz J, McCormick W, Gupta RK, Golding H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Viral Products, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research 
(CBER), Food and Drug Administration, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Vaccine production and initiation of mass vaccination is a key factor in rapid 
response to new influenza pandemic. During the 2009-2010 H1N1 pandemic, several 
bottlenecks were identified, including the delayed availability of vaccine 
potency reagents. Currently, antisera for the single-radial immunodiffusion 
(SRID) potency assay are generated in sheep immunized repeatedly with HA 
released and purified after bromelain-treatment of influenza virus grown in 
eggs. This approach was a major bottleneck for pandemic H1N1 (H1N1pdm09) potency 
reagent development in 2009. Alternative approaches are needed to make HA 
immunogens for generation of SRID reagents in the shortest possible time. In 
this study, we found that properly folded recombinant HA1 globular domain (rHA1) 
from several type A viruses including H1N1pdm09 and two H5N1 viruses could be 
produced efficiently using a bacterial expression system and subsequent 
purification. The rHA1 proteins were shown to form functional oligomers of 
trimers, similar to virus derived HA, and elicited high titer of neutralizing 
antibodies in rabbits and sheep. Importantly, the immune sera formed 
precipitation rings with reference antigens in the SRID assay in a 
dose-dependent manner. The HA contents in multiple H1N1 vaccine products from 
different manufacturers (and in several lots) as determined with the 
rHA1-generated sheep sera were similar to the values obtained with a 
traditionally generated sheep serum from NIBSC. We conclude that bacterially 
expressed recombinant HA1 proteins can be produced rapidly and used to generate 
SRID potency reagents shortly after new influenza strains with pandemic 
potential are identified.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.06.014
PMCID: PMC3182405
PMID: 21704111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Proteins. 2021 Oct;89(10):1386-1393. doi: 10.1002/prot.26160. Epub 2021 Jun 29.

Novel variants of engineered water soluble mu opioid receptors with extensive 
mutations and removal of cysteines.

Xi J(1), Yang N(1), Perez-Aguilar JM(2)(3), Selling B(1), Grothusen JR(1), 
Lamichhane R(4), Saven JG(2), Liu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, University of Pennsylvania 
Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania School of Art and 
Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)School of Chemical Science, Meritorious Autonomous University of Puebla 
(BUAP), Puebla, Mexico.
(4)Department of Biochemistry & Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of 
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee, USA.

We have shown that water-soluble variants of the human mu opioid receptor 
(wsMOR) containing a reduced number of hydrophobic residues at the lipid-facing 
residues of the transmembrane (TM) helices can be expressed in E. coli. In this 
study, we tested the consequences of increasing the number of mutations on the 
surface of the transmembrane domain on the receptor's aqueous solubility and 
ligand binding properties, along with mutation of 11 cysteine residues 
regardless of their solvent exposure value and location in the protein. We 
computationally engineered 10 different variants of MOR, and tested four of them 
for expression in E. coli. We found that all four variants were successfully 
expressed and could be purified in high quantities. The variants have alpha 
helical structural content similar to that of the native MOR, and they also 
display binding affinities for the MOR antagonist (naltrexone) similar to the 
wsMOR variants we engineered previously that contained many fewer mutations. 
Furthermore, for these full-length variants, the helical content remains 
unchanged over a wide range of pH values (pH 6 ~ 9). This study demonstrates the 
flexibility and robustness of the water-soluble MOR variants with respect to 
additional designed mutations in the TM domain and changes in pH, whereupon the 
protein's structural integrity and its ligand binding affinity are maintained. 
These variants of the full-length MOR with less hydrophobic surface residues and 
less cysteines can be obtained in large amounts from expression in E. coli and 
can serve as novel tools to investigate structure-function relationships of the 
receptor.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/prot.26160
PMCID: PMC8419088
PMID: 34152652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Jun 28;12(2):2156-66. doi: 10.4238/2013.June.28.3.

Fast preparation of a polyclonal antibody against chicken protocadherin 1.

Li YH(1), Zhao XH, Li M, Yang CQ, Wang L, Lin JT.

Author information:
(1)Henan Cultivating Key Laboratory of Heredity Disease and Targeted Molecular 
Drugs, School of Life Sciences and Technology, Xinxiang Medical University, 
Xinxiang, Henan Province, China. yonghaili@126.com

Protocadherins constitute a large family belonging to the cadherin superfamily; 
they function in various tissues of a wide variety of multicellular organisms. 
However, their functions and expression modes are still unknown in many of these 
species and tissues. We developed a fast and low-cost method to produce 
polyclonal antibody against chicken protocadherin 1 (Pcdh1) that could be used 
in assays for immunological assessment of protein expression levels of chicken 
Pcdh1. Primers were designed with DNAStar, using the nuclear sequence of pcdh1 
as a template; the pcdh101 fragment was amplified, identified by sequencing and 
cloned into expression vectors pGEX-2TK and pET-32a, separately, resulting in 2 
recombinant plasmids, pGEX-2TK-pcdh101 and pET-32a-pcdh101. These were confirmed 
by double-enzyme digestion and sequencing. The recombinant expression vectors 
were transformed and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21. The recombinant 
oligopeptides glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-Pcdh101 and (His)6-Pcdh101 fused 
with the carrier protein GST and (His)6 separately, and were purified. Rats were 
immunized by injecting the emulsified GST-Pcdh101 antigen subcutaneously into 
their hind footpads, followed by a booster injection after 2 weeks. One week 
after the booster, the sera were collected and examined for antibody titer by 
indirect ELISA. The optimal dilution of this antiserum was 1:300. The 
specificity of the antiserum was confirmed by Western blotting. This antiserum 
had good specificity and could be used to detect chicken Pcdh1 in Western blot 
analysis. This method allows production of specific rat polyclonal antisera for 
Western blots in less than 1 month at a relatively low cost.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.June.28.3
PMID: 23913393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Microb Cell Fact. 2017 Feb 28;16(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s12934-017-0650-8.

Improving Escherichia coli membrane integrity and fatty acid production by 
expression tuning of FadL and OmpF.

Tan Z(1), Black W(1)(2), Yoon JM(1), Shanks JV(1), Jarboe LR(3).

Author information:
(1)4134 Biorenewables Research Laboratory, Department of Chemical and Biological 
Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Sciences, University of 
California, 916 Engineering Tower Irvine, Irvine, CA, 92697-2575, USA.
(3)4134 Biorenewables Research Laboratory, Department of Chemical and Biological 
Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, 50011, USA. ljarboe@iastate.edu.

BACKGROUND: Construction of microbial biocatalysts for the production of 
biorenewables at economically viable yields and titers is frequently hampered by 
product toxicity. Membrane damage is often deemed as the principal mechanism of 
this toxicity, particularly in regards to decreased membrane integrity. Previous 
studies have attempted to engineer the membrane with the goal of increasing 
membrane integrity. However, most of these works focused on engineering of 
phospholipids and efforts to identify membrane proteins that can be targeted to 
improve fatty acid production have been unsuccessful.
RESULTS: Here we show that deletion of outer membrane protein ompF significantly 
increased membrane integrity, fatty acid tolerance and fatty acid production, 
possibly due to prevention of re-entry of short chain fatty acids. In contrast, 
deletion of fadL resulted in significantly decreased membrane integrity and 
fatty acid production. Consistently, increased expression of fadL remarkably 
increased membrane integrity and fatty acid tolerance while also increasing the 
final fatty acid titer. This 34% increase in the final fatty acid titer was 
possibly due to increased membrane lipid biosynthesis. Tuning of fadL expression 
showed that there is a positive relationship between fadL abundance and fatty 
acid production. Combinatorial deletion of ompF and increased expression of fadL 
were found to have an additive role in increasing membrane integrity, and was 
associated with a 53% increase the fatty acid titer, to 2.3 g/L.
CONCLUSIONS: These results emphasize the importance of membrane proteins for 
maintaining membrane integrity and production of biorenewables, such as fatty 
acids, which expands the targets for membrane engineering.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-017-0650-8
PMCID: PMC5331629
PMID: 28245829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep;32(9):1255-9.

[Preparation and identification of monoclonal antibodies against chicken cell 
cycle checkpoint kinase 2 (cChk2)].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao J(1), Lian X(1), Sun H(1), Lu Z(2), Zhang X(3), Jung YS(1), Chen H(4), Qian 
Y(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 
210095, China.
(2)Shanghai Veterinary Research Institute, China Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Shanghai 200241, China.
(3)Anhui Key Laboratory of Poultry Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, 
Anhui Science and Technology University, Fengyang 233100, China.
(4)Shanghai Veterinary Research Institute, China Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Shanghai 200241, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: 
yqian@njau.edu.cn.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 
210095, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: vetchj@shvri.ac.cn.

Objective To prepare monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against chicken cell cycle 
checkpoint kinase 2 (cChk2). Methods The cChk2 gene was amplified by reverse 
transcription PCR (RT-PCR) and subcloned into the prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-4T-3. After induced by IPTG, cChk2 was expressed in BL21 (DE3) E.coli cells 
and analyzed by SDS-PAGE to determine its soluability. BALB/c mice were 
immunized with cChk2 protein peritoneally. Indirect immunofluorescence assay 
(IFA) and Western blotting were used to detect anti-serum; if the detection 
result was positive, IFA and limited dilution was performed to screen hybridoma 
clones that produced antibodies against cChk2. Results cChk2 was mainly 
expressed in inclusion bodies. The anti-sera were able to recognize Chk2. Nine 
positive hybridoma clones were obtained and identified as 1F4, 2D9, 2G1, 3D9, 
3E3, 4B5, 4E2, 5C9 and 5F7. Conclusion The study has prepared mAbs against cChk2 
with a good specificity and a high titer.

PMID: 27609583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Sep;101:106-14. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.05.013. Epub 
2014 Jun 9.

Over-expression in E. coli and purification of functional full-length murine 
small C-terminal domain phosphatase (SCP1, or Golli-interacting protein).

Jaramillo-Tatis S(1), Bamm VV(1), Vassall KA(1), Harauz G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, 50 Stone 
Road East, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, 50 Stone 
Road East, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada. Electronic address: 
gharauz@uoguelph.ca.

During myelination in the central nervous system, proteins arising from the gene 
in the oligodendrocyte lineage (golli) participate in diverse events in signal 
transduction and gene regulation. One of the interacting partners of the 
Golli-isoform BG21 was discovered by yeast-2-hybrid means and was denoted the 
Golli-interacting-protein (GIP). In subsequent in vitro studies of recombinant 
murine GIP, it was not possible to produce a full-length version of recombinant 
murine rmGIP in functional form under native conditions, primarily because of 
solubility issues, necessitating the study of a hexahistidine-tagged, truncated 
form ΔN-rmGIP. This protein is an acidic phosphatase belonging to the family of 
RNA-polymerase-2, small-subunit, C-terminal phosphatases (SCP1), and studies of 
the human ortholog hSCP1 have also been performed on truncated forms. Here, a 
new SUMO-expression and purification protocol has been developed for the 
preparation of a functional, full-length mSCP1/GIP (our nomenclature 
henceforth), with no additional purification tags. Both full-length mSCP1/GIP 
and the truncated murine form (now denoted ΔN-rmSCP1/GIP) had similar melting 
temperatures, indicating that the integrity of the catalytic core per se was 
minimally affected by the N-terminus. Characterization of mSCP1/GIP activity 
with the artificial substrate p-NPP (p-nitrophenylphosphate) yielded kinetic 
parameters comparable to those of ΔN-rmSCP1/GIP and the truncated human ortholog 
ΔN-hSCP1. Similarly, mSCP1/GIP dephosphorylated a more natural CTD-peptide 
substrate (but not protein kinase C-phosphorylated BG21) with comparable 
kinetics to ΔN-hSCP1. The successful production of an active, full-length 
mSCP1/GIP will enable future evaluation of the functional role of its N-terminus 
in protein-protein interactions (e.g., BG21) that regulate its phosphatase 
activity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.05.013
PMID: 24925644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. J Agric Food Chem. 2019 Jun 5;67(22):6285-6291. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b01839. 
Epub 2019 May 28.

Production of N-Acetyl-d-neuraminic Acid by Whole Cells Expressing Bacteroides 
thetaiotaomicron N-Acetyl-d-glucosamine 2-Epimerase and Escherichia coli 
N-Acetyl-d-neuraminic Acid Aldolase.

Gao X(1), Zhang F(1), Wu M(1), Wu Z(1), Shang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Microbes and Functional Genomics, College of Life 
Sciences , Nanjing Normal University , Nanjing 210023 , China.

N-Acetyl-d-neuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) is a potential baby nutrient and the key 
precursor of antiflu medicine Zanamivir. The Neu5Ac chemoenzymatic synthesis 
consists of N-acetyl-d-glucosamine epimerase (AGE)-catalyzed epimerization of 
N-acetyl-d-glucosamine (GlcNAc) to N-acetyl-d-mannosamine (ManNAc) and 
aldolase-catalyzed condensation between ManNAc and pyruvate. Herein, we cloned 
and characterized BT0453, a novel AGE, from a human gut symbiont Bacteroides 
thetaiotaomicron. BT0453 shows the highest soluble fraction among the AGEs 
tested. With GlcNAc and sodium pyruvate as substrates, Neu5Ac production by 
coupling whole cells expressing BT0453 and Escherichia coli 
N-acetyl-d-neuraminic acid aldolase was explored. After 36 h, a 53.6% molar 
yield, 3.6 g L-1 h-1 productivity and 42.9 mM titer of Neu5Ac were obtained. 
Furthermore, for the first time, the T7- BT0453-T7- nanA polycistronic unit was 
integrated into the E. coli genome, generating a chromosome-based 
biotransformation system. BT0453 protein engineering and metabolic engineering 
studies hold potential for the industrial production of Neu5Ac.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b01839
PMID: 31117501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2019 Dec;35(12):1122-1127.

[Preparation of mouse polyclonal antibodies against lipoprotein SPD_1609 in 
Streptococcus pneumoniae].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang X(1), He L(1), Wei F(1), Guo Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Zhuhai Key Laboratory of Basic and Applied Research in Chinese Medicine, 
Department of Bioengineering, Zhuhai Campus of Zunyi Medical University, Zhuhai 
519041, China.
(2)Zhuhai Key Laboratory of Basic and Applied Research in Chinese Medicine, 
Department of Bioengineering, Zhuhai Campus of Zunyi Medical University, Zhuhai 
519041, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: gzh494266@163.com.

Objective To prepare mouse polyclonal antibodies against lipoprotein SPD_1609 in 
Streptococcus pneumoniae. Methods Firstly, the spd_1609 gene in Streptococcus 
pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) D39 strain was amplified and ligated into the 
prokaryotic expression vector of pGEX-4T-1 to generate recombinant plasmid 
pGEX-4T-1609. Secondly, the fusion protein of GST-1609 was expressed in 
Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), and purified using GST affinity chromatography. 
After cleaving the GST-tag of the fusion protein, the SPD_1609 protein was 
obtained and purified using GST affinity chromatography. Finally, BALB/c mice 
were immunized with the purified SPD_1609 protein to produce polyclonal 
antibodies. The titer and specificity of polyclonal antibodies were detected 
using ELISA and Western blotting. Results In this study, the recombinant vector 
of pGEX-4T-1609 was constructed, and the SPD_1609 protein (Mr is approximately 
35 000) was expressed and purified with a higher 95% purity. The ELISA results 
suggested that the SPD_1609 protein could induce specific immune responses in 
mice, and the titer of antibody in the immunized mice was 1:40 960. Western 
blotting indicated that the polyclonal antibody could specifically recognize the 
SPD_1609 protein expressed in prokaryotic expression vector and in S. 
pneumoniae. Conclusion The mouse polyclonal antibody with good specificity 
against SPD_1609 protein has been successfully obtained.

PMID: 31894012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Apr;96:39-47. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.01.012. Epub 2014 
Jan 31.

Domain isolation, expression, purification and proteolytic activity of the 
metalloprotease PrtV from Vibrio cholerae.

Edwin A(1), Grundström C(1), Wai SN(2), Ohman A(3), Stier G(4), Sauer-Eriksson 
AE(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden; Umeå Centre 
for Microbial Research (UCMR), Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden.
(2)Umeå Centre for Microbial Research (UCMR), Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, 
Sweden; Department of Molecular Biology, Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, 
Sweden; The Laboratory for Molecular Infection Medicine Sweden (MIMS), Umeå 
University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Neuroscience, Umeå University, SE-901 
85 Umeå, Sweden.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden. Electronic 
address: gunter.stier@bzh.uni-heidelberg.de.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden; Umeå Centre 
for Microbial Research (UCMR), Umeå University, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden. 
Electronic address: elisabeth.sauer-eriksson@chem.umu.se.

The metalloprotease PrtV from Vibrio cholerae serves an important function for 
the bacteria's ability to invade the mammalian host cell. The protein belongs to 
the family of M6 proteases, with a characteristic zinc ion in the catalytic 
active site. PrtV constitutes a 918 amino acids (102 kDa) multidomain 
pre-pro-protein that so far has only been expressed in V. cholerae. Structural 
studies require high amounts of soluble protein with high purity. Previous 
attempts for recombinant expression have been hampered by low expression and 
solubility of protein fragments. Here, we describe results from parallel cloning 
experiments in Escherichia coli where fusion tagged constructs of PrtV fragments 
were designed, and protein products tested for expression and solubility. Of 
more than 100 designed constructs, three produced protein products that 
expressed well. These include the N-terminal domain (residues 23-103), the PKD1 
domain (residues 755-839), and a 25 kDa fragment (residues 581-839). The soluble 
fusion proteins were captured with Ni²⁺ affinity chromatography, and 
subsequently cleaved with tobacco etch virus protease. Purification protocols 
yielded ∼10-15 mg of pure protein from 1L of culture. Proper folding of the 
shorter domains was confirmed by heteronuclear NMR spectra recorded on 
¹⁵N-labeled samples. A modified protocol for the native purification of the 
secreted 81 kDa pro-protein of PrtV is provided. Proteolytic activity 
measurements suggest that the 37 kDa catalytic metalloprotease domain alone is 
sufficient for activity.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.01.012
PMID: 24492010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. Biotechnol J. 2019 Jun;14(6):e1800478. doi: 10.1002/biot.201800478. Epub 2019 
Apr 23.

Enhanced Phenyllactic Acid Production in Escherichia coli Via Oxygen Limitation 
and Shikimate Pathway Gene Expression.

Kawaguchi H(1), Miyagawa H(2), Nakamura-Tsuruta S(2)(3), Takaya N(4), Ogino 
C(2)(5), Kondo A(1)(2)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Science, Technology and Innovation, Kobe University, 1-1 
Rokkodai, Nada, Kobe, 657-8501, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemical Science and Engineering, Graduate School of 
Engineering, Kobe University, 1-1 Rokkodai, Nada, Kobe 657-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Human and Living Sciences, Minatogawa College, 1430 Yotsutsuji, 
Sanda, Hyogo, 669-1342, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Life and Environmental Science, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 
Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8572, Japan.
(5)Engineering Biology Research Center, Kobe University, 1-1 Rokkodai, Nada, 
Kobe, 657-8501, Japan.
(6)Center for Sustainable Resource, RIKEN, 1-7-22 Suehiro, Turumi, Yokohama, 
Kanagawa, 230-0045, Japan.

3-Phenyllactic acid (PhLA) is useful as a start-up material in the 
pharmaceutical and biorefinery industries. To enhance the production of PhLA 
from glucose using recombinant Escherichia coli, the effects of glucose 
concentration and oxygen limitation on PhLA production are assessed in a 
fed-batch system using dissolved oxygen (DO)-stat method. The highest titer of 
PhLA (7.3 g L-1 ) is observed with a high concentration of glucose and under 
oxygen-limited conditions (DO = 0 ppm). Under oxygen limitation, cell growth and 
the formation of acetate and l-phenylalanine (Phe) by-products after 72 h of 
cultivation are reduced by 30%, 70%, and 81%, respectively, as compared to that 
under high DO conditions (DO = 5 ppm). Gene expression levels are compared 
between low and high DO conditions by quantitative polymerase chain reaction 
(qPCR) analysis. Several genes in the glycolysis (gapA and pykA), pentose 
phosphate (tktA), and early shikimate pathways for PhLA biosynthesis (aroF, 
aroG, and aroH) are upregulated under oxygen limitation. The results suggest 
that oxygen limitation affects metabolism in the shikimate pathway at both 
metabolic and transcriptional levels and that controlling the DO level is 
critical for enhanced production of a variety of aromatic compounds through the 
shikimate pathway.

© 2019 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201800478
PMID: 30810277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. J Biotechnol. 2009 Jan 1;139(1):61-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2008.09.002. Epub 
2008 Sep 25.

High-titer production of monomeric hydroxyvalerates from levulinic acid in 
Pseudomonas putida.

Martin CH(1), Prather KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Hydroxyacids represent an important class of compounds that see application in 
the production of polyesters, biodegradable plastics and antibiotics, and that 
serve as useful chiral synthetic building blocks for other fine chemicals and 
pharmaceuticals. An economical, high-titer method for the production of 
4-hydroxyvalerate (4HV) and 3-hydroxyvalerate (3HV) from the inexpensive and 
renewable carbon source levulinic acid was developed. These hydroxyvalerates 
were produced by periodically feeding levulinate to Pseudomonas putida KT2440 
expressing a recombinant thioesterase II (tesB) gene from Escherichia coli K12. 
The titer of 4HV in shake flask culture reached 13.9+/-1.2 g L(-1) from P. 
putida tesB(+) cultured at 32 degrees C in LB medium periodically supplemented 
with glucose and levulinate. The highest 3HV titer obtained was 5.3+/-0.1 g 
L(-1) in M9 minimal medium supplemented with glucose and levulinate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2008.09.002
PMID: 18938201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Jun;122:8-14. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.02.005. Epub 2016 
Feb 11.

Molecular characterization of IFN-T expressed in buffalo embryonic trophoblasts 
and expression of recombinant BuIFN-T1a2 and BuIFN-T8 isoforms in E. coli.

Saugandhika S(1), Sharma V(1), Malik H(1), Mohapatra SK(1), Bondre VP(2), Kumar 
S(1), Mohanty AK(1), Malakar D(3).

Author information:
(1)Animal Biotechnology Centre, National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, 
Haryana 132001, India.
(2)National Institute of Virology, Pune, India.
(3)Animal Biotechnology Centre, National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, 
Haryana 132001, India. Electronic address: dhrubamalakar@gmail.com.

Interferon tau (IFN-T) acts as a signaling molecule for maternal recognition of 
pregnancy (MRP) in ruminants. Aim of the present study was to identify various 
Buffalo Interferon tau (BuIFN-T) transcripts in buffalo trophoblast, 
phylogenetic comparison of these sequences with known mRNA sequences of buffalo, 
bovine, caprine and ovine and to express and purify the recombinant BuIFN-T 
(rBuIFN-T) isoforms. Following RNA extraction from trophectodermal cells, RT-PCR 
was performed using Ifn-t gene specific primers. 13 distinct cDNA variants 
encoding eight different BuIFN-T proteins were identified. BuIFN-T1a2 and 
BuIFN-T8 were expressed in prokaryotic expression system at 37 °C, 25 °C and 
16 °C with 1 mM IPTG for 12 h and the recombinant proteins expressed at 16 °C 
were partially purified by Immobilised Metal Affinity Chromatography (IMAC). 
BuIFN-T isoforms have greater nucleotide and amino acid homology with caprine 
(98-100%, 96-100%), ovine (94-97%, 90-95%) and bovine (89.6-90.6%, 82-86%). 
These novel BuIFN-T isoforms contained pronounced nucleotide and amino acid 
sequence identity with one another (99.1-99.8%, 98-99%) but moderate sequence 
identity with previously identified buffalo IFN-T (90-92%, 82-86%). Solubility 
of expressed recombinant isoforms (rBuIFN-T1a2 and rBuIFN-T8) was highest at 
16 °C. In conclusion, 13 distinct Ifn-t gene variants exist in trophectoderm of 
in vitro developed buffalo blastocysts that encode eight different proteins. 
rBuIFN-T1a2 and rBuIFN-T8 were successfully expressed in soluble form in 
Escherichia coli expression system at 16 °C with 1 mM IPTG and the resulting 
recombinant proteins were partially purified by IMAC.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2016.02.005
PMID: 26876002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Oct;186:105929. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105929. Epub 
2021 Jun 14.

Recombinant organophosphorus hydrolase (OPH) expression in E. coli for the 
effective detection of organophosphate pesticides.

Jain M(1), Yadav P(1), Joshi B(1), Joshi A(2), Kodgire P(3).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Biosciences and Biomedical Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology, Indore, Simrol, Khandwa Road, Indore, 453552, India.
(2)Discipline of Biosciences and Biomedical Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology, Indore, Simrol, Khandwa Road, Indore, 453552, India. Electronic 
address: abhijeet.joshi@iiti.ac.in.
(3)Discipline of Biosciences and Biomedical Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology, Indore, Simrol, Khandwa Road, Indore, 453552, India. Electronic 
address: pkodgire@iiti.ac.in.

Accumulation and exposure of organophosphate pesticides are of great concern 
today owing to their abundant usage and potential health hazards. Harmful 
effects of organophosphate pesticide exposure and limitations of the available 
treatment methods necessitate the development of reliable, selective, 
cost-effective, and sensitive methods of detection. We developed a novel 
biosensor based on the enzymatic action of recombinant organophosphorus 
hydrolase (OPH) expressed in E. coli. We report the development of colorimetric 
biosensors made of His-Nus-OPH as well as His-Nus-OPH loaded alginate 
microspheres. The colorimetric detection method developed using solution-phase 
and alginate-encapsulated His-Nus-OPH exhibited detection limits of 0.045 and 
0.039 mM, respectively, for ethyl paraoxon, and 0.101 and 0.049 mM, 
respectively, for methyl parathion. Additionally, fluorescence measurement using 
pH-sensitive fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) was used to sense the quantity of 
organophosphorus pesticides. The fluorometric detection method using 
solution-phase His-Nus-OPH, with ethyl paraoxon and methyl parathion as the 
substrate, reveals the lower limit of detection as 0.014 mM and 0.044 mM, 
respectively. Our results demonstrate the viability of His-Nus-OPH for OP 
detection with good sensitivity, LOD, and linear range. We report the first use 
of N-terminal His-NusA-tagged OPH, which enhances solubility significantly and 
presents a significant advance for the scientific community.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105929
PMID: 34139322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Mar;119:94-101. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.11.016. Epub 
2015 Nov 22.

Development of monoclonal antibodies and immunochromatographic lateral flow 
device for rapid test of alanine aminotransferase isoenzyme 1.

Hu X(1), Cheng S(2), Liu X(2), Li J(1), Zheng W(2), Lu G(3), Zhang J(3), Zheng 
J(4), Zhang J(5).

Author information:
(1)The Blood Transfusion Department, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, PR China.
(2)Clinical Laboratory, Shandong Jiaotong Hospital, No.11 Wuyinshan Road, 
Tianqiao District, Ji'nan, Shandong Province, PR China.
(3)Artron BioResearch Inc., 3938 North Fraser Way, Burnaby, British Columbia, 
V5J 5H6, Canada.
(4)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology on Infectious Diseases, Chongqing Medical 
University, No.1 Yixueyuan Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing 400016, PR China.
(5)The Blood Transfusion Department, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, PR China. Electronic address: juanmcq@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) has been used as a sensitive marker 
for liver injury in people and in preclinical toxicity studies. But measurement 
of ALT isoenzymes, ALT1 and ALT2, was reported to be of more diagnostic value. 
The aim of this study is to develop an ideal pair of anti-ALT1 monoclonal 
antibodies (MAbs) of high specificity and affinity, and subsequently prepare a 
Immunochromatographic lateral flow device (LFD) for rapid test of ALT1 in human 
serums.
METHODS: The complete coding sequence of ALT1 gene (1500 bp) was cloned from 
human hepatoma G2 cells (HepG2) and inserted into the expression vector 
pET-32a(+). ALT1 recombinant protein was routinely prepared by E. coli BL21 
(DE3) expression and Ni(2+) affinity purification. Balb/c mice were immunized 
with purified ALT1 and the splenocytes were fused with Sp2/0 myeloma cells. The 
positive clones, verified by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
using purified ALT1, were subcloned to single clones by limiting dilution 
process. A MAb pair was selected from the obtained MAbs according the sandwich 
ELISA pairing results and then used for lateral flow device (LFD) production. 
After evaluation of the sensitivity and specificity, the LFD strips were 
employed to test human serum samples with known ALT activity levels.
RESULTS: ALT1 recombinant protein was expectedly prepared by expression and 
purification. A total of 8 stable clones that produced antibodies specifically 
recognizing ALT1 protein were developed. After sandwich ELISA pairing, an ideal 
pair of anti-ALT1 MAbs, designated as BD7 and DG3, were selected and proved to 
be of high specificity, titer and affinity. Based on the MAb pair, LFD strips 
specifically for ALT1 rapid test were subsequently prepared. The detection 
threshold of the LFD strips was 12 U/L. No cross reaction was found.
CONCLUSIONS: The ALT1 LFD with high sensitivity and specificity was successfully 
developed. It is valuable for testing ALT1 protein in human sera and can be a 
beneficial complement for traditional ALT test.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.11.016
PMID: 26611609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2016 Nov 16;46(8):833-837. doi: 
10.1080/10826068.2016.1141300.

Expression, purification, and characterization of recombinant human H-chain 
ferritin.

Zou W(1), Liu X(1), Chen D(1), Wang J(1), Zhao X(1), Li J(1), Ji L(1), Hua Z(1).

Author information:
(1)a State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences , Nanjing University , Nanjing , Jiangsu , China.

Based on their nanocage architectures, ferritins show their potential 
applications in medical imaging and therapeutic delivery systems. However, the 
recombinant human H-chain ferritin (rHF) is prone to form inclusion bodies in 
Escherichia coli. In our study, the cDNA of rHF was cloned into plasmid pET28a 
under the control of a T7 promoter. Molecular chaperones, including GroES, 
GroEL, and trigger factor, were coexpressed with rHF to facilitate its correct 
folding. The results showed that the solubility of rHF was increased more than 
threefold with the help of molecular chaperones. Taking advantages of its 
N-terminal His-tag, rHF was then purified with Ni-affinity chromatography. With 
a yield of 15 mg/L from bacterial culture, the purified rHF was analyzed by 
circular dichroism spectrometry for its secondary structure. Moreover, the rHF 
nanocages were characterized by transmission electron microscopy and dynamic 
light scattering. Our results indicate that rHF is able to self-assemble into 
nanocages with a narrow size distribution.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2016.1141300
PMID: 26853188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Protein Expr Purif. 2016 Mar;119:63-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.11.018. Epub 2015 
Nov 24.

Expression, purification, and characterization of recombinant human L-chain 
ferritin.

Zou W(1), Liu X(1), Zhao X(1), Wang J(1), Chen D(1), Li J(1), Ji L(2), Hua Z(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 Xianlin Avenue, Nanjing 210046, Jiangsu, PR 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 Xianlin Avenue, Nanjing 210046, Jiangsu, PR 
China. Electronic address: jilina@nju.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 Xianlin Avenue, Nanjing 210046, Jiangsu, PR 
China. Electronic address: huazc@nju.edu.cn.

Ferritins form nanocage architectures and demonstrate their potential to serve 
as functional nanomaterials with potential applications in medical imaging and 
therapy. In our study, the cDNA of human L-chain ferritin was cloned into 
plasmid pET-28a for its overexpression in Escherichia coli. However, the 
recombinant human L-chain ferritin (rLF) was prone to form inclusion bodies. 
Molecular chaperones were co-expressed with rLF to facilitate its correct 
folding. Our results showed that the solubility of rLF was increased about 
3-fold in the presence of molecular chaperones, including GroEL, GroES and 
trigger factor. Taking advantage of its N-terminal His-tag, rLF was then 
purified with Ni-affinity chromatography. With a yield of 10 mg/L from bacterial 
culture, the purified rLF was analyzed by circular dichroism spectrometry for 
its secondary structure. Furthermore, the rLF nanocages were characterized using 
dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscopy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.11.018
PMID: 26621552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Eur Biophys J. 2003 Nov;32(7):644-54. doi: 10.1007/s00249-003-0327-6. Epub 2003 
Jun 26.

Definition of the domain boundaries is critical to the expression of the 
nucleotide-binding domains of P-glycoprotein.

Kerr ID(1), Berridge G, Linton KJ, Higgins CF, Callaghan R.

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Nottingham, Queen's Medical 
Centre, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK. ian.kerr@nottingham.ac.uk

Heterologous expression of domains of eukaryotic proteins is frequently 
associated with formation of inclusion bodies, consisting of aggregated 
mis-folded protein. This phenomenon has proved a significant barrier to the 
characterization of domains of eukaryotic ATP binding cassette (ABC) 
transporters. We hypothesized that the solubility of heterologously expressed 
nucleotide binding domains (NBDs) of ABC transporters is dependent on the 
definition of the domain boundaries. In this paper we have defined a core NBD, 
and tested the effect of extensions to and deletions of this core domain on 
protein expression. Of 10 NBDs constructed, only one was expressed as a soluble 
protein in Escherichia coli, with expression of the remaining NBDs being 
associated with inclusion body formation. The soluble NBD protein we have 
obtained corresponds to residues 386-632 of P-glycoprotein and represents an 
optimally defined domain. The NBD has been isolated and purified to 95% 
homogeneity by a two-step purification protocol, involving affinity 
chromatography and gel filtration. Although showing no detectable ATP 
hydrolysis, the protein retains specific ATP binding and has a secondary 
structure compatible with X-ray crystallographic data on bacterial NBDs. We have 
interpreted our results in terms of homology models, which suggest that the 
N-terminal NBD of P-glycoprotein can be produced as a stable, correctly folded, 
isolate domain with judicious design of the expression construct.

DOI: 10.1007/s00249-003-0327-6
PMID: 12830334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2021 Dec 25;37(12):4231-4242. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.210042.

[Efficient cascade biosynthesis of (S)-2-hydroxybutyric acid].

[Article in Chinese]

Tian L(1), Zhou J(1), Yang T(1), Zhang X(1), Shao M(1), Xu M(1), Rao Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.

2-Hydroxybutyric acid (2-HBA) is an important intermediate for synthesizing 
biodegradable materials and various medicines. Chemically synthesized racemized 
2-HBA requires deracemization to obtain optically pure enantiomers for 
industrial application. In this study, we designed a cascade biosynthesis system 
in Escherichia coli BL21 by coexpressing L-threonine deaminase (TD), 
NAD-dependent L-lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and formate dehydrogenase (FDH) for 
production of optically pure (S)-2-HBA from bulk chemical L-threonine (L-Thr). 
To coordinate the production rate and the consumption rate of the intermediate 
2-oxobutyric acid in the multi-enzyme cascade catalytic reactions, we explored 
promoter engineering to regulate the expression levels of TD and FDH, and 
developed a recombinant strain P21285FDH-T7V7827 with a tunable system to 
achieve a coordinated multi-enzyme expression. The recombinant strain 
P21285FDH-T7V7827 was able to efficiently produce (S)-2-HBA with the highest 
titer of 143 g/L and a molar yield of 97% achieved within 16 hours. This titer 
was approximately 1.83 times than that of the highest yield reported to date, 
showing great potential for industrial application. Our results indicated that 
constructing a multi-enzyme-coordinated expression system in a single cell 
significantly contributed to the biosynthesis of hydroxyl acids.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.210042
PMID: 34984870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. J Virol Methods. 2007 Aug;143(2):125-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2007.02.012. 
Epub 2007 May 29.

High-level expression of recombinant dengue virus type 2 envelope domain III 
protein and induction of neutralizing antibodies in BALB/C mice.

Zhang ZS(1), Yan YS, Weng YW, Huang HL, Li SQ, He S, Zhang JM.

Author information:
(1)Fujian Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Jintai Road 76, Fuzhou 
35001, China.

Dengue fever is a growing public health problem in many countries since so far 
no effective vaccines are available. In this study, the domain III of dengue 
virus type 2 envelope was expressed in Escherichia coli without fusion of any 
carrier protein. The recombinant protein was detected in the form of inclusion 
bodies, which were solubilized in 8M urea and could be purified subsequently by 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on an ion exchange column. After 
refolding, the recombinant protein inhibited the DEN-2 plaque formation on C6/36 
cells, demonstrated its function of receptor-interaction was retained. The 
recombinant protein was inoculated into BALB/c mice to test its immunogenicity 
and ability to induce neutralizing antibodies. The mice immunized with the 
purified protein developed high antibody titers. A neutralizing titer of 1:64 
was also obtained by a cytopathogenic effect (CPE) inhibition assay in C6/36 
cells. Mice challenged with lethal dose of DEN-2 in combination with sera from 
immunized mice were protected completely. The results suggested that these 
expression and purification strategies have the potential for development of an 
inexpensive vaccine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2007.02.012
PMID: 17532481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2003 Apr;61(2):123-32. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-002-1190-6. Epub 2003 Jan 28.

Identification of factors impeding the production of a single-chain antibody 
fragment in Escherichia coliby comparing in vivo and in vitro expression.

Oelschlaeger P(1), Lange S, Schmitt J, Siemann M, Reuss M, Schmid RD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Technical Biochemistry, University of Stuttgart, Allmandring 31, 
70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

The atrazine-specific single-chain variable antibody fragments (scFv) K411B was 
produced by expression in either the cytoplasm or the periplasm of Escherichia 
coli BL21(DE3). For periplasmic production, the pelB leader was N-terminally 
fused to scFv, whereas the unfused variant resulted in cytoplasmic expression. 
The extent of protein accumulation differed significantly. Expression of scFv 
with leader was 2.3 times higher than that of the protein without leader. This 
was further investigated by generating the respective translation profiles using 
coupled in vitro transcription/translation assays, the results of which were in 
agreement. This comparative approach was also applied to functionality: 
Periplasmic expression and in vitro expression resulted in only 10% correctly 
folded scFv, indicating that the oxidizing environment of the periplasm did not 
increase proper folding. Thus, the data obtained in vitro confirmed the findings 
observed in vivo and suggested that the discrepancy in expression levels was due 
to different translation efficiencies. However, the in vivo production of scFv 
with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fused C-terminally (scFv-EGFP) 
was only successful in the cytoplasm, although in vitro the expression with and 
without the leader rendered the same production profile as for scFv. This 
indicated that neither the translation efficiency nor the solubility but other 
factors impeded periplasmic expression of the fusion protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-002-1190-6
PMID: 12655454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Protein Pept Lett. 2006;13(6):559-63. doi: 10.2174/092986606777145904.

Expression of soluble and functional snake venom fibrinolytic enzyme fibrolase 
via the co-expression of DsbC in Escherichia coli.

Zhang ST(1), Shi J, Zhao J, Qi YF, Guo AG.

Author information:
(1)Northwest A&F University, Key Laboratory of Agricultural Molecular Biology in 
Shaanxi Province, Yangling, Shaanxi Province, 712100, P.R. China.

Fibrolase is a non-hemorrhagic zinc metalloproteinase found in southern 
copperhead snake venom (Agkistrodon contortrix contortrix). It is capable of 
degrading fibrin clots that result from purified fibrinogen or blood plasma. The 
DNA of fibrolase was amplified by recursive PCR, and cloned into the pET25b(+) 
expression vector. The effect of co-expression of signalless versions of 
catalysts or molecular chaperones FkpA, Skp and DsbC in cytoplasm was examined. 
When co-expressed with DsbC, compared to the totally insoluble inclusion bodies 
of fibrolase expressed separately, more than 90 % of recombinant fibrolase was 
soluble, according to denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis. We 
also determined that FkpA and Skp had no effects on the solubility of target 
protein when co-expressed with fibrolase in Escherichia coli. Fibrolase was 
successfully purified using metal ion affinity chromatography and hydrophobic 
chromatography, and a maximum yield of 20 mg/L fibrolase was obtained. 
Fibrinolytic activity of recombinant fibrolase was demonstrated using fibrin 
plate assays and fibrinogen hydrolysis.

DOI: 10.2174/092986606777145904
PMID: 16842109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. J Biotechnol. 2017 Sep 20;258:190-196. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.01.006. Epub 
2017 Jan 28.

Functional expression of plant-derived O-methyltransferase, flavanone 
3-hydroxylase, and flavonol synthase in Corynebacterium glutamicum for 
production of pterostilbene, kaempferol, and quercetin.

Kallscheuer N(1), Vogt M(1), Bott M(1), Marienhagen J(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bio- and Geosciences, IBG-1: Biotechnology, Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, D-52425 Jülich, Germany.
(2)Institute of Bio- and Geosciences, IBG-1: Biotechnology, Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, D-52425 Jülich, Germany. Electronic address: 
j.marienhagen@fz-juelich.de.

Plant polyphenols receive significant attention due to their anti-oxidative and 
health-promoting properties, and several microorganisms are currently engineered 
towards producing these valuable compounds. Previously, Corynebacterium 
glutamicum has been engineered for synthesizing polyphenol core structures such 
as the stilbene resveratrol and the (2S)-flavanone naringenin. Decoration of 
these compounds by O-methylation or hydroxylation would provide access to 
polyphenols of even higher commercial interest. In this study, introduction of a 
heterologous O-methyltransferase into a resveratrol-producing C. glutamicum 
strain allowed synthesis of 42mg/L (0.16mM) of the di-O-methylated pterostilbene 
from p-coumaric acid. A prerequisite for reaching this product titer was a 
fusion of O-methyltransferase with the maltose-binding protein of Escherichia 
coli lacking its signal peptide, thereby increasing the solubility of the 
O-methyltransferase. Furthermore, expression of heterologous dioxygenase genes 
in (2S)-flavanone-producing C. glutamicum strains enabled the production of 
flavanonols and flavonols starting from the phenylpropanoids p-coumaric acid and 
caffeic acid. For the flavonols kaempferol and quercetin, maximum product titers 
of 23mg/L (0.08mM) and 10mg/L (0.03mM) could be achieved, respectively. The 
obtained results demonstrate that C. glutamicum is a suitable host organism for 
the production of more complex plant polyphenols.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.01.006
PMID: 28143765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Oct;138:56-62. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.06.011. Epub 
2017 Jun 20.

Expression, purification, and crystallization of type 1 isocitrate dehydrogenase 
from Trypanosoma brucei brucei.

Wang X(1), Inaoka DK(2), Shiba T(3), Balogun EO(4), Allmann S(5), Watanabe 
YI(6), Boshart M(5), Kita K(1), Harada S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Chemistry, School of International Health, 
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan; School of 
Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki 852-8523, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Biomedical Chemistry, School of International Health, 
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan; School of 
Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki 852-8523, 
Japan. Electronic address: danielken@nagasaki-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Applied Biology, Graduate School of Science and Technology, 
Kyoto Institute of Technology, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8585, Japan.
(4)Department of Biomedical Chemistry, School of International Health, 
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan; Department 
of Biochemistry, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria 2222, Nigeria.
(5)Faculty of Biology, Genetics, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich (LMU), 
D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.
(6)Department of Biomedical Chemistry, School of International Health, 
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

Isocitrate dehydrogenases (IDHs) are metabolic enzymes that catalyze the 
oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate to α-ketoglutarate. Depending on the 
electron acceptor and subcellular localization, these enzymes are classified as 
NADP+-dependent IDH1 in the cytosol or peroxisomes, NADP+-dependent IDH2 and 
NAD+-dependent IDH3 in mitochondria. Trypanosoma brucei is a protozoan parasite 
that causes African sleeping sickness in humans and Nagana disease in animals. 
Here, for the first time, a putative glycosomal T. brucei type 1 IDH (TbIDH1) 
was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified for crystallographic study. 
Surprisingly, the putative NADP+-dependent TbIDH1 has higher activity with NAD+ 
compared with NADP+ as electron acceptor, a unique characteristic among known 
eukaryotic IDHs which encouraged us to crystallize TbIDH1 for future biochemical 
and structural studies. Methods of expression and purification of large amounts 
of recombinant TbIDH1 with improved solubility to facilitate protein 
crystallization are presented.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.06.011
PMID: 28642005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Vaccine. 2005 Oct 10;23(42):4959-68. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.05.023.

SARS coronavirus spike polypeptide DNA vaccine priming with recombinant spike 
polypeptide from Escherichia coli as booster induces high titer of neutralizing 
antibody against SARS coronavirus.

Woo PC(1), Lau SK, Tsoi HW, Chen ZW, Wong BH, Zhang L, Chan JK, Wong LP, He W, 
Ma C, Chan KH, Ho DD, Yuen KY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, The University of Hong Kong, Room 423, University 
Pathology Building, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong.

Different forms of SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) spike protein-based vaccines for 
generation of neutralizing antibody response against SARS-CoV were compared 
using a mouse model. High IgG levels were detected in mice immunized with 
intraperitoneal (i.p.) recombinant spike polypeptide generated by Escherichia 
coli (S-peptide), mice primed with intramuscular (i.m.) tPA-optimize800 DNA 
vaccine (tPA-S-DNA) and boosted with i.p. S-peptide, mice primed with i.m. 
CTLA4HingeSARS800 DNA vaccine (CTLA4-S-DNA) and boosted with i.p. S-peptide, 
mice primed with oral live-attenuated Salmonella typhimurium 
(Salmonella-S-DNA-control) and boosted with i.p. S-peptide, mice primed with 
oral live-attenuated S. typhimurium that contained tPA-optimize800 DNA vaccine 
(Salmonella-tPA-S-DNA) and boosted with i.p. S-peptide, and mice primed with 
oral live-attenuated S. typhimurium that contained CTLA4HingeSARS800 DNA vaccine 
(Salmonella-tPA-S-DNA) and boosted with i.p. S-peptide. No statistical 
significant difference was observed among the Th1/Th2 index among these six 
groups of mice with high IgG levels. Sera of all six mice immunized with i.p. 
S-peptide, i.m. DNA vaccine control and oral Salmonella-S-DNA-control showed no 
neutralizing antibody against SARS-CoV. Sera of the mice immunized with i.m. 
tPA-S-DNA, i.m. CTLA4-S-DNA, oral Salmonella-S-DNA-control boosted with i.p. 
S-peptide, oral Salmonella-tPA-S-DNA, oral Salmonella-tPA-S-DNA boosted with i.p 
S-peptide, oral Salmonella-CTLA4-S-DNA and oral Salmonella-CTLA4-S-DNA boosted 
with i.p. S-peptide showed neutralizing antibody titers of <1:20-1:160. Sera of 
all the mice immunized with i.m. tPA-S-DNA boosted with i.p. S-peptide and i.m. 
CTLA4-S-DNA boosted with i.p. S-peptide showed neutralizing antibody titers of 
>or=1:1280. The present observation may have major practical value, such as 
immunization of civet cats, since production of recombinant proteins from E. 
coli is far less expensive than production of recombinant proteins using 
eukaryotic systems.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.05.023
PMCID: PMC7115571
PMID: 15993989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Elife. 2019 Jul 31;8:e46615. doi: 10.7554/eLife.46615.

Profiling the Escherichia coli membrane protein interactome captured in 
Peptidisc libraries.

Carlson ML(#)(1), Stacey RG(#)(2), Young JW(#)(1), Wason IS(1), Zhao Z(1), 
Rattray DG(2), Scott N(2), Kerr CH(2), Babu M(3), Foster LJ(2), Duong Van Hoa 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(2)Michael Smith Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Regina, Regina, 
Canada.
(#)Contributed equally

Protein-correlation-profiling (PCP), in combination with quantitative 
proteomics, has emerged as a high-throughput method for the rapid identification 
of dynamic protein complexes in native conditions. While PCP has been 
successfully applied to soluble proteomes, characterization of the membrane 
interactome has lagged, partly due to the necessary use of detergents to 
maintain protein solubility. Here, we apply the peptidisc, a 'one-size fits all' 
membrane mimetic, for the capture of the Escherichia coli cell envelope proteome 
and its high-resolution fractionation in the absence of detergent. Analysis of 
the SILAC-labeled peptidisc library via PCP allows generation of over 4900 
possible binary interactions out of >700,000 random associations. Using 
well-characterized membrane protein systems such as the SecY translocon, the Bam 
complex and the MetNI transporter, we demonstrate that our dataset is a useful 
resource for identifying transient and surprisingly novel protein interactions. 
For example, we discover a trans-periplasmic supercomplex comprising subunits of 
the Bam and Sec machineries, including membrane-bound chaperones YfgM and PpiD. 
We identify RcsF and OmpA as bone fide interactors of BamA, and we show that 
MetQ association with the ABC transporter MetNI depends on its N-terminal lipid 
anchor. We also discover NlpA as a novel interactor of MetNI complex. Most of 
these interactions are largely undetected by standard detergent-based 
purification. Together, the peptidisc workflow applied to the proteomic field is 
emerging as a promising novel approach to characterize membrane protein 
interactions under native expression conditions and without genetic 
manipulation.

© 2019, Carlson et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.46615
PMCID: PMC6697469
PMID: 31364989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MC, RS, JY, IW, ZZ, DR, NS, CK, MB, LF No 
competing interests declared, FD has a website which sells the peptide used in 
this study


1183. Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun. 2015 Aug;71(Pt 8):986-92. doi: 
10.1107/S2053230X15010389. Epub 2015 Jul 28.

The soluble Y115E-Y117E variant of human glutaminyl cyclase is a valid target 
for X-ray and NMR screening of inhibitors against Alzheimer disease.

DiPisa F(1), Pozzi C(1), Benvenuti M(1), Andreini M(2), Marconi G(2), Mangani 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie, Chimica e Farmacia, Università di Siena, Via 
Aldo Moro 2, 53100 Siena, Italy.
(2)Siena Biotech S.p.A., Strada del Petriccio e Belriguardo 35, 53100 Siena, 
Italy.

Recent developments in molecular pathology and genetics have allowed the 
identification of human glutaminyl cyclase (hQC) among the abnormal proteins 
involved in many neurodegenerative disorders. Difficulties in obtaining large 
quantities of pure protein may limit the use of crystallographic screening for 
drug development on this target. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments have led 
to the identification of some solvent-exposed residues that are absolutely 
critical to achieve increased solubility and to avoid precipitation of the 
enzyme in inclusion bodies when expressed in Escherichia coli. The designed 
variant Y115E-Y117E has been found to be able to provide large amounts of 
monodisperse, pure hQC from an E. coli expression system. To validate the use of 
the artificial construct as a target for large-scale X-ray and NMR screening 
campaigns in the search for new inhibitors of hQC, the X-ray crystal structures 
of the hQC Y115E-Y117E variant and of its adduct with the inhibitor PBD-150 were 
determined.

DOI: 10.1107/S2053230X15010389
PMCID: PMC4528929
PMID: 26249687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1184. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Nov;62(1):21-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.07.010. Epub 
2008 Aug 5.

Enhanced protein expression in the baculovirus/insect cell system using 
engineered SUMO fusions.

Liu L(1), Spurrier J, Butt TR, Strickler JE.

Author information:
(1)Lifesensors, Inc., Research and Development, Malvern, PA 19355, USA.

Recombinant protein expression in insect cells varies greatly from protein to 
protein. A fusion tag that is not only a tool for detection and purification, 
but also enhances expression and/or solubility would greatly facilitate both 
structure/function studies and therapeutic protein production. We have shown 
that fusion of SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier) to several test proteins 
leads to enhanced expression levels in Escherichia coli. In eukaryotic 
expression systems, however, the SUMO tag could be cleaved by endogenous 
desumoylase. In order to adapt SUMO-fusion technology to these systems, we have 
developed an alternative SUMO-derived tag, designated SUMOstar, which is not 
processed by native SUMO proteases. In the present study, we tested the SUMOstar 
tag in a baculovirus/insect cell system with several proteins, i.e. mouse UBP43, 
human tryptase beta II, USP4, USP15, and GFP. Our results demonstrate that 
fusion to SUMOstar enhanced protein expression levels at least 4-fold compared 
to either the native or His(6)-tagged proteins. We isolated active SUMOstar 
tagged UBP43, USP4, USP15, and GFP. Tryptase was active following cleavage with 
a SUMOstar specific protease. The SUMOstar system will make significant impact 
in difficult-to-express proteins and especially to those proteins that require 
the native N-terminal residue for function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.07.010
PMCID: PMC2585507
PMID: 18713650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Mol Biol Res Commun. 2020 Apr;9(1):1-10. doi: 10.22099/mbrc.2019.35429.1457.

Analyzing Signal Peptides for Secretory Production of Recombinant Diagnostic 
Antigen B8/1 from Echinococcus granulosus: An In silico Approach.

Khatami SH(1), Taheri-Anganeh M(2), Arianfar F(3), Savardashtaki A(4)(5), 
Sarkari B(6)(7), Ghasemi Y(5)(8), Mostafavi-Pour Z(1)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Research Institute on Cellular and 
MolecularMedicine, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Allied Medicine, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Medical Sciences and 
Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(5)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(6)Department of Parasitology and Mycology School of Medicine, Shiraz University 
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(7)Basic Sciences in Infectious Diseases Research Center, School of Medicine, 
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(9)Maternal-Fetal Medicine Research Center, School of Medicine, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Recombinant AgB8/1 as the most evaluated antigen for serological diagnosis of 
Cystic Echinococcosis (CE) can provide early and accurate diagnosis for proper 
management and treatment of the disease. Thus, the secretory production of this 
recombinant protein is the main goal and the application of signal peptides at 
the N terminus of the desired protein can help to achieve this goal. The present 
study applied few bioinformatics tools to evaluate several signal peptides to 
offer the best candidate for extracellular production of AgB8/1 of Echinococcus 
granulosus in Escherichia coli. The sequences related to signal peptides were 
obtained from "Signal Peptide Website" and were checked by "UniProt". In 
addition, UniProt was employed to retrieve the sequence of AgB8/1. Then, the 
probable signal peptide sequences and their cleavage site locations were 
determined by SignalP 4.1 followed by evaluation of their physicochemical 
features, using ProtParam. The solubility of the target recombinant proteins was 
accessed by SOLpro. Finally, PRED-TAT and ProtCompB were implemented to predict 
protein secretion pathways and final destinations. Among the 39 candidate signal 
peptides, ENTC2_STAAU and ENTC1_STAAU are the best ones which are stable and 
soluble in connection with AgB8/1 and can secrete target protein through Sec 
pathway. The signal peptides recommended in this investigation are valuable for 
rational designing of secretory stable and soluble AgB8/1. Such information is 
useful for future experimental production of the mentioned antigen.

DOI: 10.22099/mbrc.2019.35429.1457
PMCID: PMC7275822
PMID: 32582787


1186. Nat Commun. 2021 Oct 19;12(1):6093. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-26337-1.

A dual-reporter system for investigating and optimizing protein translation and 
folding in E. coli.

Zutz A(1), Hamborg L(1)(2), Pedersen LE(1), Kassem MM(2), Papaleo E(2), Koza 
A(1), Herrgård MJ(1), Jensen SI(1), Teilum K(2), Lindorff-Larsen K(2), Nielsen 
AT(3).

Author information:
(1)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical 
University of Denmark, Kemitorvet 220, 2800 Kgs, Lyngby, Denmark.
(2)Structural Biology and NMR Laboratory, Department of Biology, University of 
Copenhagen, Ole Maaloes Vej 5, 2200, Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(3)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical 
University of Denmark, Kemitorvet 220, 2800 Kgs, Lyngby, Denmark. 
atn@biosustain.dtu.dk.

Strategies for investigating and optimizing the expression and folding of 
proteins for biotechnological and pharmaceutical purposes are in high demand. 
Here, we describe a dual-reporter biosensor system that simultaneously assesses 
in vivo protein translation and protein folding, thereby enabling rapid 
screening of mutant libraries. We have validated the dual-reporter system on 
five different proteins and find an excellent correlation between reporter 
signals and the levels of protein expression and solubility of the proteins. We 
further demonstrate the applicability of the dual-reporter system as a screening 
assay for deep mutational scanning experiments. The system enables high 
throughput selection of protein variants with high expression levels and altered 
protein stability. Next generation sequencing analysis of the resulting 
libraries of protein variants show a good correlation between computationally 
predicted and experimentally determined protein stabilities. We furthermore show 
that the mutational experimental data obtained using this system may be useful 
for protein structure calculations.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-021-26337-1
PMCID: PMC8526717
PMID: 34667164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.T.N., A.Z. and R.L. have filed a provisional 
application on this work (EP3209795B1, US10544414B2). The application covers the 
use of the two-cassette reporter system for assessing gene target translation 
and folding. All other authors declare no competing interests.


1187. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2011 Jan;34(1):73-81. doi: 
10.1016/j.cimid.2010.02.004. Epub 2010 Mar 11.

Comparison of the immune responses induced by oral immunization of mice with 
Lactobacillus casei-expressing porcine parvovirus VP2 and VP2 fused to 
Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin B subunit protein.

Liu D(1), Wang X, Ge J, Liu S, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, PR China. liudiqiu1980@yahoo.com.cn

The major structural protein VP2 of porcine parvovirus (PPV) was used as the 
model parvovirus antigen, which has been expressed in Lactobacillus casei fusing 
with Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin B subunit (LTB) as mucosal 
adjuvant. The VP2-LTB DNA fragment was cloned into vector pPG611 or pPG612 to 
generated inducible surface-displayed and secretion expression systems based on 
xylose promoter, designated as rLc:pPG611-VP2-LTB (recombinant L. casei) and 
rLc:pPG612-VP2-LTB, respectively. Expression of the fusion protein was verified 
by SDS-PAGE, Western blot immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. It was 
observed that the level of IgG or sIgA from mice orally immunized with VP2-LTB 
was higher than that from mice received VP2 and negative control, which 
demonstrated significantly statistically different. Especially, the titer of IgG 
or sIgA in mice immunized with rLc:pPG612-VP2-LTB is the highest in this study. 
In summary, LTB as mucosal adjuvant was able to effectively facilitate induction 
of mucosal and systemic immunity by L. casei-expressing VP2 fusion protein.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2010.02.004
PMCID: PMC7112623
PMID: 20226529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. Mol Cells. 2001 Aug 31;12(1):50-6.

Immune induction and modulation in mice following immunization with DNA encoding 
F protein of respiratory syncytial virus.

Park EK(1), Soh BY, Jang YS, Park JH, Chung GH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biological Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Chonbuk National 
University, Chonju, Korea.

Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is one of the principal agents of 
bronchiolitis and pneumonia in young children. Thus, there is a strong need to 
make a safe and effective vaccine against the RSV infection. DNA immunization is 
very effective at inducing both cellular and humoral immune responses. In this 
study, we inserted the RSV-F gene into expression vectors, pcDNA3.1 and pQE. 
These constructs were transformed into C2C12 and E. coli M15 cells, 
respectively. The expression of the RSV-F protein was confirmed by SDS-PAGE, 
followed by Western blot analyses. The immunization of pcDNA3.1-RSV-F elicited 
both anti-RSV-F titer in mouse sera and CTL activities with mouse splenocytes. 
Especially, the co-administration of IL-4, or the GM-CSF gene with the RSV-F 
gene construct, enhanced the production of anti-RSV-F Ab. However, this 
enhancement disappeared by the simultaneous injection of the Th1 and Th2 type 
cytokine genes. The CTL activities were affected by the co-delivery of the 
IFN-gamma gene, but not by Th2-type cytokines.

PMID: 11561730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. Vaccine. 2018 Apr 12;36(16):2086-2092. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.03.011. Epub 
2018 Mar 16.

Expression and characterization of a novel truncated rotavirus VP4 for the 
development of a recombinant rotavirus vaccine.

Li Y(1), Xue M(1), Yu L(1), Luo G(1), Yang H(1), Jia L(1), Zeng Y(1), Li T(2), 
Ge S(3), Xia N(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics, 
National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in Infectious Disease, 
Strait Collaborative Innovation Center of Biomedicine and Pharmaceutics, School 
of Public Health and School of Life Science, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361102, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics, 
National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in Infectious Disease, 
Strait Collaborative Innovation Center of Biomedicine and Pharmaceutics, School 
of Public Health and School of Life Science, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361102, 
China. Electronic address: litingdong@xmu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics, 
National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in Infectious Disease, 
Strait Collaborative Innovation Center of Biomedicine and Pharmaceutics, School 
of Public Health and School of Life Science, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361102, 
China. Electronic address: sxge@xmu.edu.cn.

The outer capsid protein VP4 is an important target for the development of a 
recombinant rotavirus vaccine because it mediates the attachment and penetration 
of rotavirus. Due to the poor solubility of full-length VP4, VP8 was explored as 
candidate rotavirus vaccines in the past years. In previous studies, it has been 
found that the N-terminal truncated VP8 protein, VP8-1 (aa26-231), could be 
expressed in soluble form with improved immunogenicity compared to the core of 
VP8 (aa65-223). However, this protein stimulated only a weak immune response 
when aluminum hydroxide was used as an adjuvant. In addition, it should be noted 
that the protective efficacy of VP4 was higher than that of VP8 and VP5. In this 
study, it was found that when the N-terminal 25 amino acids were deleted, the 
truncated VP4∗ (aa26-476) containing VP8 and the stalk domain of VP5 could be 
expressed in soluble form in E. coli and purified to homogeneous trimers. 
Furthermore, the truncated VP4 could induce high titers of neutralizing 
antibodies when aluminum adjuvant was used and conferred high protective 
efficacy in reducing the severity of diarrhea and rotavirus shedding in stools 
in animal models. The immunogenicity of the truncated VP4 was significantly 
higher than that of VP8∗ and VP5∗ alone. Taken together, the truncated VP4∗ 
(aa26-476), with enhanced immunogenicity and immunoprotectivity, could be 
considered as a viable candidate for further development and has the potential 
to become a parenterally administered rotavirus vaccine.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.03.011
PMID: 29555220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. Zhongguo Xue Xi Chong Bing Fang Zhi Za Zhi. 2020 Aug 24;32(4):355-360. doi: 
10.16250/j.32.1374.2020090.

[Expression, purification and polyclonal antibody preparation of the Schistosoma 
japonicum SjGrpE protein].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Xiao F(1), Hu Z(2), Tan X(1), Huang ZZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathogenic Biology, Shaoyang University, Shaoyang 422600, 
China.
(2)Shaoyang Wugang Zhanhui Hospital, Hunan Province, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the biological properties of Schistosoma japonicum 
SjGrpE protein, and to express and purify the recombinant SjGrpE protein and 
test its immunogenicity.
METHODS: The amino acid composition, molecular weight, hydrophilicity and 
hydrophobicity, transmembrane region, signal peptide, localization, 
phosphorylation site, ubiquitination site, glycosylation site, secondary and 
tertiary structures and B cell epitopes of the SjGrpE protein were predicted 
using bioinformatics analyses. The SjGrpE gene was amplified using PCR assay 
using S. japonicum cDNA as a template, double enzyme-digested and linked to the 
pET28a vector to yield the recombinant plasmid pET28a-SjGrpE. The recombinant 
plasmid pET28a-SjGrpE was transformed into Escherichia coli BL21, and then IPTG 
was employed to induce the expression of the target protein, which was purified 
by nickel ion affinity chromatography. After mice were immunized with the 
recombinant SjGrpE protein, mouse sera were collected, and the polyclonal 
antibody against the SjGrpE protein was characterized.
RESULTS: SjGrpE protein, which was identified as a hydrophilic protein, was 
predicted to have a molecular weight of approximately 24.3 kDa without 
transmembrane regions or signal peptides, and locate in the mitochondrion. 
SjGrpE protein contained 18 phosphorylation sites and 2 ubiquitination sites, 
but had no glycosylation sites. In addition, SjGrpE protein contained 5 B-cell 
epitopes. The full length of SjGrpE gene was approximately 660 bp. The 
recombinant pET28a-SjGrpE plasmid was successfully generated, and the 
recombinant SjGrpE protein was obtained following the affinity chromatography, 
which stimulated mice to secrete high-titer antibodies.
CONCLUSIONS: The recombinant SjGrpE protein has been successfully prepared and 
this recombinant protein has a high immunogenicity, which provides a basis for 
evaluating its value as a vaccine candidate for S. japonicum infections.

Publisher: ［摘要］ 目的 分析日本血吸虫核苷酸交换因子 (SjGrpE) 蛋白生物学特性, 表达与纯化重组SjGrpE蛋白并测定其免疫原性。方法 
采用生物信息学方法预测SjGrpE蛋白的氨基酸组成、分子量、亲/疏水性、跨膜区、信号肽、定位、磷酸化位点、泛素化位点、糖基化位点、二级和三级结构及B细胞表位。以日本血吸虫cDNA为模板, 
PCR扩增SjGrpE 基因, 将其双酶切后连接到pET28a载体得到重组质粒pET28a-SjGrpE。将pET28a-SjGrpE转化大肠埃希菌BL21, 
用IPTG诱导目的蛋白表达, 并用镍离子亲和层析法纯化蛋白。将重组SjGrpE蛋白免疫小鼠, 分离血清并鉴定获得的抗多克隆抗体。结果 
SjGrpE蛋白分子量约为24.3 kDa, 是一种亲水性蛋白, 无跨膜区、无信号肽, 定位在线粒体; 该蛋白含有18个磷酸化位点和2个泛素化位点, 
无糖基化位点, 含有5个B细胞表位。SjGrpE 基因全长为660 bp, 
成功构建重组质粒pET28a-SjGrpE并纯化获得重组SjGrpE蛋白。重组SjGrpE蛋白能够刺激小鼠分泌高滴度抗体。结论 成功制备重组SjGrpE蛋白, 
该蛋白具有良好免疫原性, 为后续研究其作为日本血吸虫病疫苗候选分子的价值奠定了基础。.

DOI: 10.16250/j.32.1374.2020090
PMID: 32935508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Toxins (Basel). 2016 Mar 3;8(3):63. doi: 10.3390/toxins8030063.

Characterization and Recombinant Expression of Terebrid Venom Peptide from 
Terebra guttata.

Moon J(1), Gorson J(2)(3), Wright ME(4)(5), Yee L(6), Khawaja S(7), Shin HY(8), 
Karma Y(9), Musunri RL(10), Yun M(11), Holford M(12)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. John.jj.moon@gmail.com.
(2)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. jgorson@gradcenter.cuny.edu.
(3)The Graduate Center, City University of New York, 365 Fifth Avenue, New York, 
NY 10016, USA. jgorson@gradcenter.cuny.edu.
(4)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. lzwright@gmail.com.
(5)The Graduate Center, City University of New York, 365 Fifth Avenue, New York, 
NY 10016, USA. lzwright@gmail.com.
(6)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. yeelaurel93@gmail.com.
(7)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. samerk28@gmail.com.
(8)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. hyshin1209@gmail.com.
(9)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. yrkarma@gmail.com.
(10)New York Genome Center, 101 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10013, USA. 
raj.musunuri@gmail.com.
(11)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. yunm11@gmail.com.
(12)Hunter College, City University of New York, Belfer Research Center 413 E. 
69th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. mholford@hunter.cuny.edu.
(13)The Graduate Center, City University of New York, 365 Fifth Avenue, New 
York, NY 10016, USA. mholford@hunter.cuny.edu.
(14)The American Museum of Natural History, 79th Street at Central Park West, 
New York, NY 10026, USA. mholford@hunter.cuny.edu.

Venom peptides found in terebrid snails expand the toolbox of active compounds 
that can be applied to investigate cellular physiology and can be further 
developed as future therapeutics. However, unlike other predatory organisms, 
such as snakes, terebrids produce very small quantities of venom, making it 
difficult to obtain sufficient amounts for biochemical characterization. Here, 
we describe the first recombinant expression and characterization of terebrid 
peptide, teretoxin Tgu6.1, from Terebra guttata. Tgu6.1 is a novel forty-four 
amino acid teretoxin peptide with a VI/VII cysteine framework (C-C-CC-C-C) 
similar to O, M and I conotoxin superfamilies. A ligation-independent cloning 
strategy with an ompT protease deficient strain of E. coli was employed to 
recombinantly produce Tgu6.1. Thioredoxin was introduced in the plasmid to 
combat disulfide folding and solubility issues. Specifically Histidine-6 tag and 
Ni-NTA affinity chromatography were applied as a purification method, and 
enterokinase was used as a specific cleavage protease to effectively produce 
high yields of folded Tgu6.1 without extra residues to the primary sequence. The 
recombinantly-expressed Tgu6.1 peptide was bioactive, displaying a paralytic 
effect when injected into a Nereis virens polychaete bioassay. The recombinant 
strategy described to express Tgu6.1 can be applied to produce high yields of 
other disulfide-rich peptides.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins8030063
PMCID: PMC4810208
PMID: 26950153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Biotechnol Prog. 2020 Sep;36(5):e2999. doi: 10.1002/btpr.2999. Epub 2020 Apr 13.

Extraction of recombinant periplasmic proteins under industrially relevant 
process conditions: Selectivity and yield strongly depend on protein titer and 
methodology.

Schimek C(1), Egger E(1), Tauer C(1), Striedner G(1), Brocard C(2), 
Cserjan-Puschmann M(1), Hahn R(1).

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Production of Next-Level Biopharmaceuticals 
in E. coli, Department of Biotechnology, University of Natural Resources and 
Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Biopharma Process Science, Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG, Wien, 
Austria.

In this work, we attempted to identify a method for the selective extraction of 
periplasmic endogenously expressed proteins, which is applicable at an 
industrial scale. For this purpose, we used an expression model that allows 
coexpression of two fluorescent proteins, each of which is specifically targeted 
to either the cytoplasm or periplasm. We assessed a number of scalable lysis 
methods (high-pressure homogenization, osmotic shock procedures, extraction with 
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and extraction with deoxycholate) for the 
ability to selectively extract periplasmic proteins rather than cytoplasmic 
proteins. Our main conclusion was that although we identified industrially 
scalable lysis conditions that significantly increased the starting purity for 
further purification, none of the tested conditions were selective for 
periplasmic protein over cytoplasmic protein. Furthermore, we demonstrated that 
efficient extraction of the expressed recombinant proteins was largely dependent 
on the overall protein concentration in the cell.

© 2020 The Authors. Biotechnology Progress published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. 
on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.2999
PMCID: PMC7685146
PMID: 32259401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2009 Dec;53(12):5163-72. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01069-09. 
Epub 2009 Sep 21.

The final step of hygromycin A biosynthesis, oxidation of 
C-5''-dihydrohygromycin A, is linked to a putative proton gradient-dependent 
efflux.

Dhote V(1), Starosta AL, Wilson DN, Reynolds KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Portland State University, Portland, OR 97207-0751, 
USA.

Hygromycin A (HA) is an aminocyclitol antibiotic produced and excreted by 
Streptomyces hygroscopicus. Deletion of hyg26 from the hygromycin A biosynthetic 
gene cluster has previously been shown to result in a mutant that produces 
5''-dihydrohygromycin A (DHHA). We report herein on the purification and 
characterization of Hyg26 expressed in Escherichia coli. The enzyme catalyzes an 
NAD(H)-dependent reversible interconversion of HA and DHHA, supporting the role 
of the reduced HA as the penultimate biosynthetic pathway intermediate and not a 
shunt product. The equilibrium for the Hyg26-catalyzed reaction heavily favors 
the DHHA intermediate. The high-titer production of the HA product by S. 
hygroscopicus must be dependent upon a subsequent energetically favorable 
enzyme-catalyzed process, such as the selective and efficient export of HA. 
hyg19 encodes a putative proton gradient-dependent transporter, and a mutant 
lacking this gene was observed to produce less HA and to produce the DHHA 
intermediate. The DHHA produced by either the Deltahyg19 or the Deltahyg26 
mutant had slightly reduced activity against E. coli and reduced protein 
synthesis-inhibitory activity in vitro. The data indicate that Hyg26 and Hyg19 
have evolved to produce and export the final potent HA product in a coordinated 
fashion.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01069-09
PMCID: PMC2786329
PMID: 19770276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. Biochimie. 2009 Sep;91(9):1145-55. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2009.06.002. Epub 2009 
Jun 13.

Importance of non-conserved distal carboxyl terminal amino acids in two 
peptidases belonging to the M1 family: Thermoplasma acidophilum Tricorn 
interacting factor F2 and Escherichia coli Peptidase N.

Kumar A(1), Bhosale M, Reddy S, Srinivasan N, Nandi D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore 560012, 
Karnataka, India.

Enzymes belonging to the M1 family play important cellular roles and the key 
amino acids (aa) in the catalytic domain are conserved. However, C-terminal 
domain aa are highly variable and demonstrate distinct differences in 
organization. To address a functional role for the C-terminal domain, 
progressive deletions were generated in Tricorn interacting factor F2 from 
Thermoplasma acidophilum (F2) and Peptidase N from Escherichia coli (PepN). 
Catalytic activity was partially reduced in PepN lacking 4 C-terminal residues 
(PepNDeltaC4) whereas it was greatly reduced in F2 lacking 10 C-terminal 
residues (F2DeltaC10) or PepN lacking eleven C-terminal residues (PepNDeltaC11). 
Notably, expression of PepNDeltaC4, but not PepNDeltaC11, in E. coliDeltapepN 
increased its ability to resist nutritional and high temperature stress, 
demonstrating physiological significance. Purified C-terminal deleted proteins 
demonstrated greater sensitivity to trypsin and bound stronger to 8-amino 
1-napthalene sulphonic acid (ANS), revealing greater numbers of surface exposed 
hydrophobic aa. Also, F2 or PepN containing large aa deletions in the C-termini, 
but not smaller deletions, were present in high amounts in the insoluble 
fraction of cell extracts probably due to reduced protein solubility. Modeling 
studies, using the crystal structure of E. coli PepN, demonstrated increase in 
hydrophobic surface area and change in accessibility of several aa from buried 
to exposed upon deletion of C-terminal aa. Together, these studies revealed that 
non-conserved distal C-terminal aa repress the surface exposure of apolar aa, 
enhance protein solubility, and catalytic activity in two soluble and distinct 
members of the M1 family.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2009.06.002
PMID: 19527767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2013 Oct 10;53(5):307-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2013.07.002. Epub 2013 Jul 17.

Improvement of thermostable aldehyde dehydrogenase by directed evolution for 
application in Synthetic Cascade Biomanufacturing.

Steffler F(1), Guterl JK, Sieber V.

Author information:
(1)Chemistry of Biogenic Resources, Straubing Centre of Science, Technische 
Universität München, Schulgasse 16, 94315 Straubing, Germany. Electronic 
address: fabian.steffler@tum.de.

The aldehyde dehydrogenase from Thermoplasma acidophilum, which was previously 
implemented as a key enzyme in a synthetic cell-free reaction cascade for the 
production of alcohols, was optimized by directed evolution. Improvements have 
been made to enhance reaction velocity and solubility. Using a random approach 
followed by site-directed and saturation mutagenesis, three beneficial amino 
acid mutations were found after screening of ca. 20,000 variants. Mutation Y399C 
enhanced the protein solubility after recombinant expression in Escherichia coli 
6-fold. Two further mutations, F34M and S405N, enhanced enzyme activity with the 
cofactor NAD(+) by a factor of eight. Impacts on enzyme stability and substrate 
specificity were negligible. Modeling of the enzyme structure did not reveal any 
direct interactions between the amino acid substitutions and residues of the 
active site or the enzyme's substrates. Thus, a directed evolution approach 
allowed for the generation of improved enzyme variants which were unlikely to be 
found by rational or semi-rational strategies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2013.07.002
PMID: 24034429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 2010;153(2):141-51. doi: 10.1159/000312631. Epub 2010 
Apr 21.

Recombinant fusion proteins assembling Der p 1 and Der p 2 allergens from 
Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus.

Bussières L(1), Bordas-Le Floch V, Bulder I, Chabre H, Nony E, Lautrette A, 
Berrouet C, Nguefeu Y, Horiot S, Baron-Bodo V, Van Overtvelt L, De Conti AM, 
Schlegel A, Maguet N, Mouz N, Lemoine P, Batard T, Moingeon P.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development, Stallergènes, Antony, France.

BACKGROUND: Fusion proteins assembling multiple allergens can be engineered by 
recombinant DNA technologies in order to produce tools for diagnostic and 
immunotherapeutic purposes. Herein, we developed and characterized chimeras 
assembling Der p 1 and Der p 2 allergens as potential candidate vaccines against 
house dust mite allergy.
METHODS: Fusion proteins encompassing Der p 2 with either mature or proDer p 1 
were expressed in Escherichia coli or Pichia pastoris. Forms with mutation in 
Der p 1 catalytic site were also engineered. Purified chimeras were 
characterized by immunoblotting, circular dichroism, disulfide bond mapping, 
basophil and T lymphocyte stimulation assays.
RESULTS: Four fusion proteins were expressed in E. coli as inclusion bodies, 
whereas only chimeras comprising proDer p 1 were obtained in yeast. All such 
hybrids formed polymers and aggregates, and yeast-expressed chimeras were 
unstable. Circular dichroism analysis performed after refolding of bacteria 
expressed chimeras encompassing mature Der p 1 confirmed partial folding, 
consistent with the occurrence of both correct and inappropriate intramolecular 
disulfide bonds. All fusion molecules were recognized by Der p 1- and Der p 
2-specific human IgEs, monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. Fusion proteins 
activate basophils from mite-allergic patients and trigger the proliferation of 
specific CD4+ T cells, albeit to a lower level when compared to individual 
allergens.
CONCLUSIONS: Production of multiple Der p 1-Der p 2 fusion proteins exhibiting 
partial folding and proper antigenic properties has been achieved. Nonetheless, 
significant solubility and stability issues currently limit the application of 
such chimeras for immunotherapy or diagnostic.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000312631
PMID: 20407270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Aug;172:105628. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105628. Epub 
2020 Mar 22.

A novel recombinant expression and purification approach for the full-length 
anti-apoptotic membrane protein Bcl-2.

Ådén J(1), Mushtaq AU(1), Dingeldein A(1), Wallgren M(1), Gröbner G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Umeå, SE -901 87, Umeå, Sweden.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Umeå, SE -901 87, Umeå, Sweden. 
Electronic address: gerhard.grobner@chem.umu.se.

Programmed cell death (apoptosis) is an essential mechanism in life that tightly 
regulates embryogenesis and removal of harmful cells. Besides an extrinsic 
pathway, an intrinsic (mitochondrial) apoptotic pathway exists where 
mitochondria are actively involved in cellular clearance in response to internal 
stress signals. Pro-apoptotic (death) and anti-apoptotic (survival) members of 
the B cell CLL/lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) protein family meet at the mitochondrion's 
surface where they accurately regulate apoptosis. Overexpression of the 
anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein is a hallmark for many types of cancers and in 
particular for many treatment resistant tumors. Bcl-2 is a membrane protein 
residing in the mitochondrial outer membrane. Due to its typical membrane 
protein features including very limited solubility, it is difficult to express 
and to purify. Therefore, most biophysical and structural studies have used 
truncated, soluble versions. However, to understand its membrane-coupled 
function and structure, access to sufficient amount of full-length human Bcl-2 
protein is a necessity. Here, we present a novel, E. coli based approach for 
expression and purification of preparative amounts of the full-length human 
isoform 2 of Bcl-2 (Bcl-2(2)), solubilized in detergent micelles, which allows 
for easy exchange of the detergent.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105628
PMID: 32209420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Dec 14;19(1):229. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01496-w.

Manipulating the position of DNA expression cassettes using location tags fused 
to dCas9 (Cas9-Lag) to improve metabolic pathway efficiency.

Xie Q(1)(2), Li S(2)(3), Zhao D(2)(3), Ye L(2)(3), Li Q(2)(3), Zhang X(4)(5), 
Zhu L(6), Bi C(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, 
Tianjin, 300457, P. R. China.
(2)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, P. R. China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China.
(4)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, P. R. China. zhang_xl@tib.cas.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China. zhang_xl@tib.cas.cn.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of 
Biotechnology, Beijing, 100071, China. jewly54@126.com.
(7)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, P. R. China. bi_ch@tib.cas.cn.
(8)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China. bi_ch@tib.cas.cn.

BACKGROUND: Deactivated Cas9 (dCas9) led to significant improvement of 
CRISPR/Cas9-based techniques because it can be fused with a variety of 
functional groups to form diverse molecular devices, which can manipulate or 
modify target DNA cassettes. One important metabolic engineering strategy is to 
localize the enzymes in proximity of their substrates for improved catalytic 
efficiency. In this work, we developed a novel molecular device to manipulate 
the cellular location of specific DNA cassettes either on plasmids or on the 
chromosome, by fusing location tags to dCas9 (Cas9-Lag), and applied the 
technique for synthetic biology applications. Carotenoids like β-carotene serve 
as common intermediates for the synthesis of derivative compounds, which are 
hydrophobic and usually accumulate in the membrane compartment.
RESULTS: Carotenoids like β-carotene serve as common intermediates for the 
synthesis of derivative compounds, which are hydrophobic and usually accumulate 
in the membrane components. To improve the functional expression of 
membrane-bound enzymes and localize them in proximity to the substrates, 
Cas9-Lag was used to pull plasmids or chromosomal DNA expressing carotenoid 
enzymes onto the cell membrane. For this purpose, dCas9 was fused to the E. coli 
membrane docking tag GlpF, and gRNA was designed to direct this fusion protein 
to the DNA expression cassettes. With Cas9-Lag, the zeaxanthin and astaxanthin 
titer increased by 29.0% and 26.7% respectively. Due to experimental 
limitations, the electron microscopy images of cells expressing Cas9-Lag vaguely 
indicated that GlpF-Cas9 might have pulled the target DNA cassettes in close 
proximity to membrane. Similarly, protein mass spectrometry analysis of membrane 
proteins suggested an increased expression of carotenoid-converting enzymes in 
the membrane components.
CONCLUSION: This work therefore provides a novel molecular device, Cas9-Lag, 
which was proved to increase zeaxanthin and astaxanthin production and might be 
used to manipulate DNA cassette location.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01496-w
PMCID: PMC7737257
PMID: 33317552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1199. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 May;24(5):874-80.

[Cloning of foot-and-mouth disease virus integrin receptor beta1 subunit and 
antibody production to its ligand-binding domain].

[Article in Chinese]

Du P(1), Shang Y, Ma J, He Y, Sun X, Liu X.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Virology, Ministry of Agriculture/State Key 
Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology/Lanzhou Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agriculture Science, Lanzhou 730046, China.

We produced beta1 gene which is about 2400 bp by reverse transcription 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from bovine trachea, reclaimed and purified, 
then cloned the amplified fragment to pGEM-T easy vector, confirmed by 
sequencing. The immune-dominant epitope of beta1 gene was chosen by computer 
analysis and then syncretized ligand-binding domain from 346 bp to 843 bp of 
ecytoplasm with six histidine, expressed LBD protein massly in E. coli BL21 
(DE3), and identified by SDS-PAGE. The fusion protein was purified with Ni-NTA 
affinity chromatography and immunized New Zealand rabbits preparing of its 
polyclonal antibody, the specific antibody titer was above 1:12,800 detected by 
indirect ELISA, the result of Western blot showed that this antibody could be 
recognized by LBD fusion protein.

PMID: 18724711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2015 Jun 4;55(6):732-8.

[Regulation effect of CcpA protein on the biosynthesis of capsular 
polysaccharide in Streptococcus pneumoniae].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang L, Xu H, Wu K, Zheng Y, Wang J, Ma F, Zhang X, Yin Y, Zhang Q.

OBJECTIVE: We studied the regulation effect of glycometabolic protein, 
catabolite control protein A (CcpA), on the biosynthesis of capsular 
polysaccharide ( CPS) in Streptococcus pneumonia.
METHODS: His-tagged CcpA protein was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) and 
purified by Ni2+ affinity chromatography. The anti-CcpA serum was obtained from 
immunized mice and the antibody titer was determined by ELISA. The conservation 
of CcpA was determined by Western blotting. In addition, binding of CcpA protein 
to the promoter region of cps locus was verified by EMSA. The amount of capsular 
polysaccharide was determined by ELISA and compared among wild type D39 strain, 
ccpA mutant and the complement strains.
RESULTS: CcpA protein was conserved in different pneuococcal serotypes included 
in this study. EMSA assay revealed that CcpA protein could bind the promoter 
region of the cps locus in a dose-dependent manner. The absence of ccpA gene led 
to an increased expression of capsular polysaccharide, and complement expression 
of CcpA protein significantly reduced the amount of capsular polysaccharide.
CONCLUSION: CcpA is conserved in Streptococcus pneumonia, which plays a role in 
regulation of the expression of the capsular polysaccharide.

PMID: 26562998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Mol Microbiol. 2004 May;52(4):1069-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2004.04014.x.

Structural tolerance of bacterial autotransporters for folded passenger protein 
domains.

Veiga E(1), de Lorenzo V, Fernández LA.

Author information:
(1)Departmento de Biotecnología Microbiana, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Campus de Cantoblanco, Madrid 
28049, Spain.

In this report we investigate the capacity of bacterial autotransporters (AT) to 
translocate folded protein domains across the outer membrane (OM). Polypeptides 
belonging to the AT family contain a C-terminal domain that supports the 
secretion of the N-domain (the passenger) across the OM of Gram-negative 
bacteria. Despite some controversial data, it has been widely accepted that 
N-passenger domains of AT must be unfolded and devoid of disulphide bonds for 
efficient translocation. To address whether or not AT are able to translocate 
folded protein domains across the OM, we employed several types of recombinant 
antibodies as heterologous N-passengers of the transporter C-domain of IgA 
protease (C-IgAP) of Neisseria gonorroheae. The N-domains used were single chain 
Fv fragments (scFv) and variable mono-domains derived from camel antibodies 
(V(HH)) selected on the basis of their distinct and defined folding properties 
(i.e. enhanced solubility, stability and presence or not of disulphide bonds). 
Expression of these hybrids in Escherichia coli shows that stable scFv and V(HH) 
domains are efficiently (>99%) translocated towards the bacterial surface 
regardless of the presence or not of disulphide bonds on their structure. 
Antigen-binding assays demonstrate that surface-exposed scFv and V(HH) domains 
are correctly folded and thus able to bind their cognate antigens. Expression of 
scFv- or V(HH)-C-IgAP hybrids in E. coli dsbA or fkpA mutant cells reveals that 
these periplasmic protein chaperones fold these N-domains before their 
translocation across the OM. Furthermore, large N-passengers composed of strings 
of V(HH) domains were secreted in a folded state by AT with no loss of efficacy 
(>99%) despite having multiple disulphide bonds. Thus AT can efficiently 
translocate toward the cell surface folded N-passengers composed of one, two or 
three immunoglobulin (Ig) domains, each with a folded diameter between 
approximately 2 nm and having disulphide bonds. This tolerance for folded 
protein domains of approximately 2 nm fits with the diameter of the central 
hydrophilic channel proposed for the ring-like oligomeric complex assembled by 
C-IgAP in the OM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2004.04014.x
PMID: 15130125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Mar;107:20-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.005. Epub 2014 
Nov 21.

Characterization of recombinantly expressed matrilin VWA domains.

Becker AK(1), Mikolajek H(2), Werner JM(2), Paulsson M(1), Wagener R(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, Center for Molecular Medicine 
Cologne (CMMC), Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in 
Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, D-50931, Germany.
(2)Centre for Biological Sciences, Life Sciences Building, University of 
Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK.
(3)Center for Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, Center for Molecular Medicine 
Cologne (CMMC), Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in 
Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, D-50931, Germany. 
Electronic address: raimund.wagener@uni-koeln.de.

VWA domains are the predominant independent folding units within matrilins and 
mediate protein-protein interactions. Mutations in the matrilin-3 VWA domain 
cause various skeletal diseases. The analysis of the pathological mechanisms is 
hampered by the lack of detailed structural information on matrilin VWA domains. 
Attempts to resolve their structures were hindered by low solubility and a 
tendency to aggregation. We therefore took a comprehensive approach to improve 
the recombinant expression of functional matrilin VWA domains to enable X-ray 
crystallography and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies. The focus was on 
expression in Escherichia coli, as this allows incorporation of isotope-labeled 
amino acids, and on finding conditions that enhance solubility. Indeed, circular 
dichroism (CD) and NMR measurements indicated a proper folding of the 
bacterially expressed domains and, interestingly, expression of zebrafish 
matrilin VWA domains and addition of N-ethylmaleimide yielded the most stable 
proteins. However, such proteins did still not crystallize and allowed only 
partial peak assignment in NMR. Moreover, bacterially expressed matrilin VWA 
domains differ in their solubility and functional properties from the same 
domains expressed in eukaryotic cells. Structural studies of matrilin VWA 
domains will depend on the use of eukaryotic expression systems.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.005
PMCID: PMC4294422
PMID: 25462806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Feb 25;10:829134. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.829134. 
eCollection 2022.

Optimization of Culture Conditions for Secretory Production of 3-Hydroxybutyrate 
Oligomers Using Recombinant Escherichia coli.

Sakurai T(1)(2), Mizuno S(1)(2), Miyahara Y(1)(2), Hiroe A(3)(2), Taguchi S(3), 
Tsuge T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of 
Technology, Yokohama, Japan.
(2)MIRAI, Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Chemistry for Life Sciences and Agriculture, Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Setagaya, Japan.

Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) [P(3HB)] is the most representative polyhydroxyalkanoate 
(PHA), which is a storage polyester for prokaryotic cells. P(3HB)-producing 
recombinant Escherichia coli secretes diethylene glycol (DEG)-terminated 3HB 
oligomers (3HBO-DEG) through a PHA synthase-mediated chain transfer and 
alcoholysis reactions with externally added DEG. The purpose of this study was 
to optimize the culture conditions for the secretory production of 3HBO-DEG with 
jar fermenters. First, the effects of culture conditions, such as agitation 
speed, culture temperature, culture pH, and medium composition on 3HBO-DEG 
production, were investigated in a batch culture using 250-ml mini jar 
fermenters. Based on the best culture conditions, a fed-batch culture was 
conducted by feeding glucose to further increase the 3HBO-DEG titer. 
Consequently, the optimized culture conditions were reproduced using a 2-L jar 
fermenter. This study successfully demonstrates a high titer of 3HBO-DEG, up to 
34.8 g/L, by optimizing the culture conditions, showing the feasibility of a new 
synthetic strategy for PHA-based materials by combining secretory oligomer 
production and subsequent chemical reaction.

Copyright © 2022 Sakurai, Mizuno, Miyahara, Hiroe, Taguchi and Tsuge.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2022.829134
PMCID: PMC8914192
PMID: 35284416

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


1204. J Biotechnol. 2020 May 20;314-315:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.03.010. Epub 
2020 Apr 3.

Increasing L-homoserine production in Escherichia coli by engineering the 
central metabolic pathways.

Liu M(1), Lou J(2), Gu J(3), Lyu XM(4), Wang FQ(5), Wei DZ(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Lab of Bioreactor Engineering, Newworld Institute of Biotechnology, 
East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 200237, China. 
Electronic address: lmin@ecust.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Lab of Bioreactor Engineering, Newworld Institute of Biotechnology, 
East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 200237, China. 
Electronic address: 15800379858@163.com.
(3)Huzhou University, College of Life Science, Huzhou, China. Electronic 
address: gujiali@zjhu.edu.cn.
(4)School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. Electronic address: 
xmlyu@ntu.edu.sg.
(5)State Key Lab of Bioreactor Engineering, Newworld Institute of Biotechnology, 
East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 200237, China. 
Electronic address: fqwang@ecust.edu.cn.
(6)State Key Lab of Bioreactor Engineering, Newworld Institute of Biotechnology, 
East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 200237, China. 
Electronic address: dzhwei@ecust.edu.cn.

l-homoserine is an important functional amino acid. Based on the system 
metabolic engineering strategy, the key genes in the central metabolic pathway 
of Escherichia coli W3110 were engineered to construct the strain for 
l-homoserine production. To construct an engineered strain with high yield of 
l-homoserine, the work was carried out from the following aspects: (1) Disrupt 
the competitive and degradative pathways of l-homoserine, and the l-homoserine 
was initially accumulated with a titer of 0.2 g/L; (2) Exploring the effect of 
weakening TCA cycle, modification of the glyoxylate branch, and reduction of the 
pyruvate synthesis for l-homoserine synthesis. The concentration of l-homoserine 
in the final recombinant strain LJL12 reached a titer of 3.2 g/L at shake flask 
and 35.8 g/L in fed-batch fermentation, showing a high l-homoserine production 
capacity (0.82 g/L/h). The study provides a well research foundation for 
l-homoserine production with the capacity for industrial application.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.03.010
PMID: 32251699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


1205. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Sep;30(9):913-6.

[Mouse macrophage-derived chemokine as an adjuvant enhances the protective 
effect of P6 protein vaccine of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae].

[Article in Chinese]

Han X(1), Wang C(1), Qiao H(1), Zhang Y(1), Chang Y(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Hebei North University, Zhangjiakou 075000, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To express P6 protein of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) in 
prokaryotic cells and observe the immune effect of macrophage-derived chemokine 
(MDC) as an adjuvant on NTHi-P6 protein vaccine.
METHODS: The encoding sequence of NTHi-P6 protein was inserted into plasmid 
PGEX-6P2, and the recombinant plasmid PGEX-6P2/P6 was transformed into E.coli 
XL1-Blue. In the expression system, the P6 protein was induced and expressed. 
BALB/c mice were randomized into three groups that were respectively inoculated 
intraperitoneally with P6 protein combined with Freund's adjuvant and MDC, P6 
protein combined with Freund's adjuvant and only PBS, 3 times at 0, 14 and 28 
days, respectively. Sera were collected from 12 mice of each group 14 days after 
each injection. The titer of IgG antibodies was detected by ELISA. Splenocytes 
were isolated from 3 mice of each group for determining the levels of IL-4 and 
IFN-γ by ELISA. Furthermore, the other 15 mice of each group were challenged 
with 10×LD50 NTHi ATCC49247 to observe the protective effect of the vaccine.
RESULTS: The IgG antibody could be induced by p6 protein combined with Freund's 
adjuvant and MDC and P6 protein combined with Freund's adjuvant, and the titers 
were 1:1 140.25 and 1:3 044.38, respectively. The differences in the antibody 
titers and the levels of IFN-γ between the two groups were significant 
statistically (P<0.05). There was no difference in IL-4 levels between the two 
groups (P>0.05). After challenged with 10×LD50 NTHi ATCC49247, the survival rate 
of mice in P6 protein combined with Freund's adjuvant and MDC group was 80%, and 
significantly higher than that in the PBS group (P<0.05), but no statistical 
difference was noted when compared with P6 protein combined with Freund's 
adjuvant group.
CONCLUSION: MDC as an adjuvant could enhance the immune protective effect of 
NTHi-P6 protein vaccine to an extent.

PMID: 25200152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Biotechnol J. 2007 Jun;2(6):678-84. doi: 10.1002/biot.200700046.

Efficient solubilization of inclusion bodies.

Freydell EJ(1), Ottens M, Eppink M, van Dedem G, van der Wielen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Delft University of Technology, Delft, The 
Netherlands.

The overexpression of recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli leads in most 
cases to their accumulation in the form of insoluble aggregates referred to as 
inclusion bodies (IBs). To obtain an active product, the IBs must be solubilized 
and thereafter the soluble monomeric protein needs to be refolded. In this work 
we studied the solubilization behavior of a model-protein expressed as IBs at 
high protein concentrations, using a statistically designed experiment to 
determine which of the process parameters, or their interaction, have the 
greatest impact on the amount of soluble protein and the fraction of soluble 
monomer. The experimental methodology employed pointed out an optimum balance 
between maximum protein solubility and minimum fraction of soluble aggregates. 
The optimized conditions solubilized the IBs without the formation of insoluble 
aggregates; moreover, the fraction of soluble monomer was approximately 75% 
while the fraction of soluble aggregates was approximately 5%. Overall this 
approach guarantees a better use of the solubilization reagents, which brings an 
economical and technical benefit, at both large and lab scale and may be broadly 
applicable for the production of recombinant proteins.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.200700046
PMID: 17492713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Mar;76(1):136-44. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.10.011. Epub 
2010 Nov 3.

Purification and characterization of a recombinant Yersinia pestis V-F1 
"Reversed" fusion protein for use as a new subunit vaccine against plague.

Goodin JL(1), Powell BS, Enama JT, Raab RW, McKown RL, Coffman GL, Andrews GP.

Author information:
(1)Bacteriology Division, U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious 
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Frederick, MD 21702, USA. jeremy.goodin@amedd.army.mil

We previously developed a unique recombinant protein vaccine against plague 
composed of a fusion between the Fraction 1 capsular antigen (F1) and the V 
antigen. To determine if overall expression, solubility, and recovery of the 
F1-V fusion protein could be enhanced, we modified the original fusion. Standard 
recombinant DNA techniques were used to reverse the gene order such that the V 
antigen coding sequence was fused at its C-terminus to the N-terminus of F1. The 
F1 secretion signal sequence (F1S) was subsequently fused to the N-terminus of 
V. This new fusion protein, designated F1S-V-F1, was then co-expressed with the 
Y. pestis Caf1M periplasmic chaperone protein in BL21-Star Escherichia coli. 
Recombinant strains expressing F1-V, F1S-F1-V, or F1S-V-F1 were compared by cell 
fractionation, SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, and suspension immunolabelling. 
F1S-V-F1 exhibited enhanced solubility and secretion when co-expressed with 
Caf1M resulting in a recombinant protein that is processed in a similar manner 
to the native F1 protein. Purification of F1S-V-F1 was accomplished by 
anion-exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography. The purification 
method produced greater than 1mg of purified soluble protein per liter of 
induced culture. F1S-V-F1 polymerization characteristics were comparable to the 
native F1. The purified F1S-V-F1 protein appeared equivalent to F1-V in its 
ability to be recognized by neutralizing antibodies.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.10.011
PMID: 21055471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 May;35(1):17-24. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.12.005.

Expression cloned cDNA for 10-deacetylbaccatin III-10-O-acetyltransferase in 
Escherichia coli: a comparative study of three fusion systems.

Fang J(1), Ewald D.

Author information:
(1)School of Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK. 
bgyjfang@leeds.ac.uk

10-Deacetylbaccatin III-10-O-acetyltransferase (10-DABT) catalyzes the formation 
of baccatin III, which is an immediate diterpenoid precursor of Taxol. A cDNA 
encoding 10-DABT was cloned from Taxus baccata by using RT-PCR and screening a 
cDNA library. A study of its heterologous overexpression in Escherichia coli was 
carried out. To get high-level expression of recombinant enzyme, three kinds of 
IPTG inducible fusion expression systems (with glutathione S-transferase (GST), 
hexahistidine (6x His), and biotinylated tag) were used, and results of 
expression were compared. Fusion 10-DABT with different tags was expressed with 
diverse expression levels and solubility in the three systems. Optimum IPTG 
concentration, temperature, and inducing time for producing recombinant enzymes 
were found. Under higher IPTG concentration (up to 1 mM), the highest level of 
expression for fusion protein was obtained in the 6x His fusion system with 
phage T5 promoter, but expressed products were only partially soluble. With 
lower IPTG concentration (less than 0.5 mM), the highest expression was detected 
in the GST fusion system with tac promoter, and the lowest level of expression 
appeared in the biotinylated fusion system. The expression level in the latter 
system did not differ dramatically with a range of different inducer 
concentrations. GST and 6x His fusion proteins were mainly soluble in aqueous 
solutions and Triton X-100 improved the solubility of biotinylated fusion 
proteins (inferring this protein is membrane-associated). Fusion proteins could 
only be partially purified by a single affinity chromatography step for all 
three systems. Glutathione-coupled matrix and streptavidin-conjugated resin have 
higher specificity than Ni-NTA resin, and elution conditions were shown to 
affect enzyme activity. Three kinds of recombinant 10-DABT with different tags 
showed enzyme activity, but total enzyme activity was lost as a result of the 
affinity chromatography step. Thrombin and Factor Xa could be used for 
site-specific cleavage of fusion proteins, but the incubation temperature 
affected enzyme activity of recombinant enzymes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.12.005
PMID: 15039061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 11;9(11):e112643. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112643. 
eCollection 2014.

The pCri System: a vector collection for recombinant protein expression and 
purification.

Goulas T(1), Cuppari A(1), Garcia-Castellanos R(1), Snipas S(2), Glockshuber 
R(3), Arolas JL(1), Gomis-Rüth FX(1).

Author information:
(1)Proteolysis Lab, Molecular Biology Institute of Barcelona, CSIC, Barcelona 
Science Park, Helix Building, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, California, United 
States of America.
(3)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, Department of Biology, Zurich, 
Switzerland.

A major bottleneck in structural, biochemical and biophysical studies of 
proteins is the need for large amounts of pure homogenous material, which is 
generally obtained by recombinant overexpression. Here we introduce a vector 
collection, the pCri System, for cytoplasmic and periplasmic/extracellular 
expression of heterologous proteins that allows the simultaneous assessment of 
prokaryotic and eukaryotic host cells (Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, and 
Pichia pastoris). By using a single polymerase chain reaction product, genes of 
interest can be directionally cloned in all vectors within four different rare 
restriction sites at the 5'end and multiple cloning sites at the 3'end. In this 
way, a number of different fusion tags but also signal peptides can be 
incorporated at the N- and C-terminus of proteins, facilitating their 
expression, solubility and subsequent detection and purification. Fusion tags 
can be efficiently removed by treatment with site-specific peptidases, such as 
tobacco etch virus proteinase, thrombin, or sentrin specific peptidase 1, which 
leave only a few extra residues at the N-terminus of the protein. The 
combination of different expression systems in concert with the cloning approach 
in vectors that can fuse various tags makes the pCri System a valuable tool for 
high throughput studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112643
PMCID: PMC4227841
PMID: 25386923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1210. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2013 Aug;35(2):351-6. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2013.04.022. 
Epub 2013 May 9.

Development of a novel candidate subunit vaccine against Grass carp reovirus 
Guangdong strain (GCRV-GD108).

Tian Y(1), Ye X, Zhang L, Deng G, Bai Y.

Author information:
(1)Pearl River Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery 
Sciences, Lab of Aquatic Animal Genetic Engineering and Molecular Breeding, 
CAFS, Ministry of Agriculture Key Lab of Tropic & Subtropic Fisheries Resource 
Utilization and Aquaculture, Guangzhou 510380, PR China.

Grass carp reovirus Guangdong 108 strain (GCRV-GD108) was recently isolated in 
Guangdong province, China. M6 gene of GCRV-GD108 was speculated encoding virus 
major outer capsid protein VP4. Blast analysis showed that the amino acid 
sequence of GCRV-GD108 VP4 was homologous to the structural protein VP4 of known 
Aquareoviruses (27.3-32.9%). Immunogenicity prediction by DNAStar software 
revealed there were multiple B cell epitopes on GCRV-GD108 VP4. Prokaryotic 
expression vector pET32a was used to express VP4 recombinant protein (rVP4) in 
E. coli BL21(DE3) strain. As expected, the molecular weight of recombinant VP4 
was about 87 kDa showed by SDS-PAGE result. Neutralization assay demonstrated 
that the rabbit polyclonal antibody of rVP4 could prevent virus infection 
efficiently. After 14 days immunization with the rVP4, grass carps were 
challenged with GCRV-GD108, the results showed that different doses of rVP4 (1 
μg/g, 3 μg/g and 5 μg/g) all provided protection against virus infection 
(47-82%). The relative percent survival reached 82% in the group immunized with 
3 μg/g of rVP4. ELISA revealed rVP4 induced high antibody titer in immunized 
fish. IgM expression levels in head kidney of grass carp were detected by 
RT-PCR, and the results showed that IgM expressed at a significantly higher 
level in immunization groups than in blank control, indicating the rVP4 can 
induce strong immune response. In conclusion, rVP4 is a candidate vaccine 
against GCRV-GD108.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2013.04.022
PMID: 23664915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1211. Metab Eng. 2021 Jul;66:60-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2021.04.008. Epub 2021 Apr 
15.

Engineering Escherichia coli for production of geraniol by systematic synthetic 
biology approaches and laboratory-evolved fusion tags.

Wang X(1), Chen J(1), Zhang J(1), Zhou Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Wang F(1), Li X(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Provincial Key Lab for the Chemistry and Utilization of Agro-forest 
Biomass, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China; Jiangsu Key 
Laboratory of Biomass-based Green Fuels and Chemicals, Nanjing Forestry 
University, Nanjing, 210037, China; College of Chemical Engineering, Nanjing 
Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China.
(2)Jiangsu Provincial Key Lab for the Chemistry and Utilization of Agro-forest 
Biomass, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China; Jiangsu Key 
Laboratory of Biomass-based Green Fuels and Chemicals, Nanjing Forestry 
University, Nanjing, 210037, China; College of Chemical Engineering, Nanjing 
Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China. Electronic address: 
xunli@njfu.edu.cn.

Geraniol is a valuable monoterpene extensively used in the fragrance, food, and 
cosmetic industries. Increasing environmental concerns and supply gaps have 
motivated efforts to advance the microbial production of geraniol from renewable 
feedstocks. In this study, we first constructed a platform geraniol Escherichia 
coli strain by bioprospecting the key enzymes geranyl diphosphate synthase 
(GPPS) and geraniol synthase (GES) and selection of a host cell background. This 
strategy led to a 46.4-fold increase in geraniol titer to 964.3 mg/L. We propose 
that the expression level of eukaryotic GES can be further optimized through 
fusion tag evolution engineering. To this end, we manipulated GES to maximize 
flux towards the targeted product geraniol from precursor geranyl diphosphate 
(GPP) via the utilization of fusion tags. Additionally, we developed a 
high-throughput screening system to monitor fusion tag variants. This common 
plug-and-play toolbox proved to be a robust approach for systematic modulation 
of protein expression and can be used to tune biosynthetic metabolic pathways. 
Finally, by combining a modified E1* fusion tag, we achieved 2124.1 mg/L of 
geraniol in shake flask cultures, which reached 27.2% of the maximum theoretical 
yield and was the highest titer ever reported. We propose that this strategy has 
set a good reference for enhancing a broader range of terpenoid production in 
microbial cell factories, which might open new possibilities for the 
bio-production of other valuable chemicals.

Copyright © 2021 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2021.04.008
PMID: 33865982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. Vaccine. 2014 May 19;32(24):2808-11. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.02.041. Epub 
2014 Feb 26.

Development of a vectored vaccine against hepatitis E virus.

Trabelsi K(1), Kamen A(2), Kallel H(3).

Author information:
(1)Viral Vaccines Research & Development Unit, Laboratory of Molecular 
Microbiology, Vaccinology and Biotechnology Development, Institut Pasteur de 
Tunis, 13 Place Pasteur, BP 74 1002 Tunis, Tunisia.
(2)Animal Cell Technology, Biotechnology Research Institute, National Research 
Council of Canada, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Viral Vaccines Research & Development Unit, Laboratory of Molecular 
Microbiology, Vaccinology and Biotechnology Development, Institut Pasteur de 
Tunis, 13 Place Pasteur, BP 74 1002 Tunis, Tunisia. Electronic address: 
hela.kallel@pasteur.rns.tn.

Hepatitis E virus is a non-enveloped ssRNA virus [1] that causes human acute 
hepatitis through primarily fecal and oral transmission [2]. Currently, no 
commercial hepatitis E (HEV) vaccine is available. In the absence of an 
appropriate cell culture system for HEV propagation, HEV pseudocapsids (ORF2 
protein) have been produced either in Escherichia coli or in insect cells and 
they have been shown to protect monkeys against virus challenge and to be 
effective in the prevention of natural HEV infection of humans. In this work, we 
propose to develop a novel candidate vaccine against hepatitis E infection using 
adeno-associated virus (AAV) as a vector expressing the gene of the truncated 
capsid protein of HEV (aa 112-aa 660). rAAV will be produced in Sf9 cells using 
the baculovirus expression vector system. For this purpose, construction of 
recombinant baculoviruses was performed and viral stocks of BacRep, BacCap for 
serotypes 2, 5 and 6 were prepared in Sf9 cells. The recombinant baculovirus 
coding for the truncated capsid protein of HEV (BacITRHEVORF2) was also 
constructed, the virus titer was equal to 5.41×10(9) PFU/mL, at the third 
passage. Transduction of HEK 293 EBNA cells with rAAV was carried out; the 
production of HEVORF2 was confirmed by Western blot. Optimization of rAAV 
production in Sf9 cells is currently ongoing.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.02.041
PMID: 24583005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. Gene. 2004 Dec 8;343(1):107-15. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2004.08.006.

Analysis and manipulation of amphotericin biosynthetic genes by means of 
modified phage KC515 transduction techniques.

Carmody M(1), Byrne B, Murphy B, Breen C, Lynch S, Flood E, Finnan S, Caffrey P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Microbiology, Centre for Synthesis and Chemical 
Biology, Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research, University 
College Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland.

Amphotericin B is a medically important antifungal antibiotic that is produced 
by Streptomyces nodosus. Genetic manipulation of this organism has led to 
production of the first amphotericin analogues by engineered biosynthesis. Here, 
these studies were extended by sequencing the chromosomal regions flanking the 
amphotericin polyketide synthase genes, and by refining the phage KC515 
transduction method for disruption and replacement of S. nodosus genes. A hybrid 
vector was constructed from KC515 DNA and the Escherichia coli plasmid pACYC177. 
This vector replicated as a plasmid in E. coli and the purified DNA yielded 
phage plaques on Streptomyces lividans after polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated 
transfection of protoplasts. The left flank of the amphotericin gene cluster was 
found to include amphRI, RII, RIII and RIV genes that are similar to regulatory 
genes in other polyene biosynthetic gene clusters. One of these regulatory 
genes, amphRI, was found to have a homologue, amphRVI, located in the right 
flank at a distance of 127 kbp along the chromosome. However, disruption of 
amphRVI using the hybrid vector had no effect on the yield of amphotericin 
obtained from cultures grown on production medium. The hybrid vector was also 
used for precise deletion of the DNA coding for two modules of the AmphC 
polyketide synthase protein. Analysis by UV spectrophotometry revealed that the 
deletion mutant produced a novel pentaene, with reduced antifungal activity but 
apparently greater water-solubility than amphotericin B. This shows the 
potential for use of the new vector in engineering of this and other 
biosynthetic pathways in Streptomyces.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2004.08.006
PMID: 15563836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Protein Eng. 2003 Oct;16(10):777-83. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzg091.

Precise and efficient cleavage of recombinant fusion proteins using mammalian 
aspartic proteases.

Kühnel B(1), Alcantara J, Boothe J, van Rooijen G, Moloney M.

Author information:
(1)SemBioSys Genetics Inc., 110 2985 23rd Avenue NE, Calgary AB T1Y 7L3, Canada.

Expression of recombinant proteins as translational fusions is commonly employed 
to enhance stability, increase solubility and facilitate purification of the 
desired protein. In general, such fusion proteins must be cleaved to release the 
mature protein in its native form. The usefulness of the procedure depends on 
the efficiency and precision of cleavage and its cost per unit activity. We 
report here the development of a general procedure for precise and highly 
efficient cleavage of recombinant fusion proteins using the protease chymosin. 
DNA encoding a modified pro-peptide from bovine chymosin was fused upstream of 
hirudin, carp growth hormone, thioredoxin and cystatin coding sequences and 
expressed in a bacterial Escherichia coli host. Each of the resulting fusion 
proteins was efficiently cleaved at the junction between the pro-peptide and the 
desired protein by the addition of chymosin, as determined by activity, 
N-terminal sequencing and mass spectrometry of the recovered protein. The system 
was tested further by cleavage of two fusion proteins, cystatin and thioredoxin, 
sequestered on oilbody particles obtained from transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. 
Even when the fusion protein was sequestered and immobilized on oilbodies, 
precise and efficient cleavage was obtained. The precision, efficiency and low 
cost of this procedure suggest that it could be used in larger scale 
manufacturing of recombinant proteins which benefit from expression as fusions 
in their host organism.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzg091
PMID: 14600208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. DNA Cell Biol. 2000 Jul;19(7):401-8. doi: 10.1089/10445490050085898.

High-level expression of a truncated wall-associated protein A from the dental 
cariogenic Streptococcus mutans.

Yoder S(1), Cao C, Ugen KE, Dao ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of South Florida, Tampa, USA.

Streptococcus mutans plays a primary role in the formation of dental caries. 
Previously, in our laboratory, an S. mutans genomic library was prepared, and 
the wapA gene was cloned into the shuttle vector, pSA4/4B2. To generate 
overexpression of wapA and to facilitate efficient purification of the WapA 
protein for use as an immunogen, an expression vector with the strong tac 
promoter was used. In order to answer questions regarding the optimization of 
solubility and expression based on gene size or the hydrophobicity of the 
protein product, 12 truncated constructs of the wapA gene were prepared using 
PCR. The truncated products were subcloned into the pGEX-6P-1 glutathione 
S-transferase (GST) fusion vector and expressed in E. coli BL21. The fusion 
proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and confirmed by analysis with anti-GST and 
anti-WapA antibodies. Our study suggests that abrogation of the wapA promoter is 
necessary for expression of this gene in this expression system. Deletion of the 
signal peptide and the hydrophobic C terminus of WapA increased expression 
compared with the full-length construct, and truncation at the protease cleavage 
site of the C-terminal region greatly increased the stability of the protein 
without a loss in reactivity with the anti-WapA antibody. Western immunoblot 
analysis with anti-WapA antiserum clearly showed that the majority of the 
epitopes of the GST-WapA fusions are located in the N-terminal region of WapA. 
The immunogenicity of the various WapA fusion products is being examined in mice 
and rats to further map the immunologically dominant regions of the protein. 
This method effectively increased the expression of WapA and should contribute 
to the further understanding of gene expression of E. coli, as well as aid in 
the characterization of this protein for future immunologic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1089/10445490050085898
PMID: 10945230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Protein Expr Purif. 2022 Jun;194:106075. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2022.106075. Epub 
2022 Feb 26.

Addition of arginine hydrochloride and proline to the culture medium enhances 
recombinant protein expression in Brevibacillus choshinensis: The case of RBD of 
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and its antibody.

Matsunaga R(1), Tsumoto K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, 113-8656, Japan.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, 113-8656, Japan; Department of Chemistry and Biotechnology, School of 
Engineering, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-8656, Japan; The Institute of 
Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 108-8639, Japan. Electronic 
address: tsumoto@bioeng.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Brevibacillus choshinensis is a gram-positive bacterium that is known to 
efficiently secrete recombinant proteins. However, the expression of these 
proteins is often difficult depending upon the expressed protein. In this study, 
we demonstrated that the addition of arginine hydrochloride and proline to the 
culture medium dramatically increased protein expression. By culturing bacterial 
cells in 96-well plates, we were able to rapidly examine the expression 
conditions and easily scale up to 96 mL of culture for production. Although 
functional expression of the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 
spike protein without any solubility-enhancing tag in bacterial strains 
(including Escherichia coli) has not been reported to date, we succeeded in 
efficiently producing RBD which showed a similar CD spectrum to that of RBD 
produced by eukaryotic cell expression systems. Furthermore, RBD from the 
omicron variant (B.1.1.529) was also produced. Physicochemical analyses 
indicated that omicron RBD exhibited markedly increased instability compared to 
the wild-type. We also revealed that the Fab format of the anti-SARS-CoV-2 
antibody C121 can be produced in large quantities using the same expression 
system. The obtained C121 Fab bound to wild-type RBD but not to omicron RBD. 
These results strongly suggest that the Brevibacillus expression system is 
useful for facilitating the efficient expression of proteins that are difficult 
to fold and will thus contribute to the rapid physicochemical evaluation of 
functional proteins.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2022.106075
PMCID: PMC8881763
PMID: 35231586

Conflict of interest statement: We have no conflicts of interest to be declared.


1217. J Biosci Bioeng. 2021 Jul;132(1):56-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2021.03.013. Epub 
2021 Apr 23.

Effective production of single-chain variable fragment (scFv) antibody using 
recombinant Escherichia coli by DO-stat fed-batch culture.

Nghia NH(1), Kumada Y(1), Kishimoto M(1), Horiuchi JI(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Functional Chemistry, Kyoto Institute of Technology, 1 
Hashigami-cho, Matsugasaki, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8585, Japan.
(2)Department of Functional Chemistry, Kyoto Institute of Technology, 1 
Hashigami-cho, Matsugasaki, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8585, Japan. Electronic address: 
horiuchi@kit.ac.jp.

Dissolved oxygen (DO)-stat fed-batch culture, which allows a high cell density 
culture of microorganisms under constant DO conditions, was applied to anti-CRP 
single-chain variable fragment (scFv) production using recombinant Escherichia 
coli. The DO-stat fed-batch culture was successfully performed under various DO 
conditions for more than 50 h, resulting in increased scFv production from 0.5 
to 0.8 g/L by flask and batch cultures to 2.8-3.0 g/L by the fed-batch culture 
under the conditions of 5-40% of DO saturation. The formation of inclusion 
bodies was effectively depressed during DO-stat fed-batch operation; 
consequently, the solubility of anti-CRP scFv was significantly improved from 
36-43% by the flask and batch cultures to 96-98% by the DO-stat fed-batch 
culture under a wide range of DO conditions. From the kinetic analysis of 
fed-batch experiments, it was also found that the successful folding of anti-CRP 
scFv in the cytoplasm occurred when metabolic rates, such as the specific growth 
rate and specific glucose consumption rate, were relatively low. These results 
show that the fed-batch culture operated by the DO-stat feeding strategy was 
effective for the enhanced production of anti-CRP scFv with high solubility.

Copyright © 2021 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2021.03.013
PMID: 33896701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. Anal Biochem. 2014 Nov 15;465:53-62. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2014.06.021. Epub 2014 
Jul 10.

Identifying protein domains by global analysis of soluble fragment data.

Bulloch EM(1), Kingston RL(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, New Zealand. 
Electronic address: e.bulloch@auckland.ac.nz.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, New Zealand.

The production and analysis of individual structural domains is a common 
strategy for studying large or complex proteins, which may be experimentally 
intractable in their full-length form. However, identifying domain boundaries is 
challenging if there is little structural information concerning the protein 
target. One experimental procedure for mapping domains is to screen a library of 
random protein fragments for solubility, since truncation of a domain will 
typically expose hydrophobic groups, leading to poor fragment solubility. We 
have coupled fragment solubility screening with global data analysis to develop 
an effective method for identifying structural domains within a protein. A gene 
fragment library is generated using mechanical shearing, or by uracil doping of 
the gene and a uracil-specific enzymatic digest. A split green fluorescent 
protein (GFP) assay is used to screen the corresponding protein fragments for 
solubility when expressed in Escherichia coli. The soluble fragment data are 
then analyzed using two complementary approaches. Fragmentation "hotspots" 
indicate possible interdomain regions. Clustering algorithms are used to group 
related fragments, and concomitantly predict domain location. The effectiveness 
of this Domain Seeking procedure is demonstrated by application to the 
well-characterized human protein p85α.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2014.06.021
PMID: 25016192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. J Histochem Cytochem. 2001 Dec;49(12):1537-46. doi: 10.1177/002215540104901207.

Characterization of a polyclonal antibody to human pituitary tumor transforming 
gene 1 (PTTG1) protein.

Kakar SS(1), Chen L, Puri R, Flynn SE, Jennes L.

Author information:
(1)James Graham Brown Cancer Center, University of Louisville, Kentucky 40202, 
USA. sskaka01@louisville.edu

Pituitary tumor transforming gene 1 (PTTG1), recently cloned from human testis, 
is a potent oncogene that is expressed in most tumors. However, assessment of 
its potential value as a prognostic marker is dependent on the development of a 
suitable antibody. We have developed a rabbit polyclonal antibody, SK601, that 
is highly specific for the PTTG1 gene product using recombinant PTTG1 protein 
(24 kD) containing an N-terminal His(6) tag as the immunogen. The antiserum is 
capable of detecting recombinant PTTG1 protein in ELISA assays at a titer of 
1:100,000. Use of the antibody as the probe in Western blotting analyses 
revealed a single band with the anticipated relative molecular weights of 52 kD 
from E. coli expressing the GST-PTTG1 recombinant protein, and 56 kD from COS-7 
cells transfected with the PTTG1-GFP chimeric construct. A single band with a 
relative molecular weight of 28 kD was observed in extract of COS-7 cells 
transfected with PTTG1 cDNA. The antiserum immunoprecipitated a protein of 
relative molecular weight of 56 kD from the extracts of COS-7 cells transfected 
with the PTTG1-GFP chimeric construct. Immunohistochemical analysis of COS-7 
cells transfected with this construct confirmed that the antibody detected and 
was specific for expressing the PTTG1-GFP recombinant protein. Screening of 
various normal human tissues (testis, ovary, and breast) by immunohistochemistry 
indicated that these tissues did not exhibit staining with the exception of 
testis, a tissue that had previously been shown to express PTTG1 mRNA. In 
contrast all of the tumor tissues (testicular tumor, ovarian tumor, and breast 
tumor) that were assessed exhibited intense staining. The results suggest that 
antiserum SK601 is highly specific for the PTTG1 protein and therefore should 
prove useful in further analysis of the expression and interactions of this 
protein, including its potential application as an immunohistochemical marker of 
human tumors.

DOI: 10.1177/002215540104901207
PMID: 11724901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. Iran J Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2015 Aug;14(4):427-36.

Constructing Chimeric Antigen for Precise Screening of HTLV-I Infection.

Heydari Zarnagh H(1), Hassanpour K(2), Rasaee MJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Sabzevar University 
of Medical Science, Sabzevar, Iran.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Sabzevar University of Medical 
Science, Sabzevar, Iran.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Medical Science, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

Individual preparation of two human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) 
diagnostic GST fused peptides (MTA-1 and GD21) is time-consuming and expensive. 
The aim of this study was to design a novel single chimeric antigen (SCA) to 
obviate separate expression of proteins and reduce the cost of reagent 
preparation. Structural protein fragments, including immunodominant B cell 
linear epitopes, were selected and different SCAs were designed. Tertiary 
structure, epitope exposure, solubility and stability were calculated for each 
SCA and compared with each other. The synthetic DNA encoding the interested SCA 
was sub-cloned into pET32a expression vector, expressed as a soluble form in 
Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells and purified under native condition using 
affinity chromatography. The SDS-PAGE results indicated that thioredoxin-fused 
SCA was successfully expressed as a soluble form in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. 
The results of ELISA confirmed that SCA reacted with anti-HTLV-I antibodies in a 
concentration-dependent manner. Our results indicated that the designed SCA may 
be a good candidate for the screening of HTLV-I carriers with 
antigen-antibody-based tests.

PMID: 26547711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Jan 16;14(1):199-208. doi: 10.4238/2015.January.16.3.

Construction and identification of recombinant adenovirus carrying human 
TIMP-1shRNA gene.

Sun YL(1), Xie H(2), Lin HL(1), Feng Q(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)The First Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Division of Nephrology, 
Dalian, China.
(2)The First Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Division of Nephrology, 
Dalian, China huaxiecn@126.com.

The aim of this study was to construct the recombinant adenovirus carrying human 
TIMP-1shRNA gene expression system for preliminary identification to lay the 
foundation for the further study of gene therapy. Using the Adeno-X system, the 
recombinant adenovirus plasmid pAdeno-X green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tissue 
inhibitor of metalloprotease (TIMP)-1 small hairpin (1shRNA) was constructed by 
including the target gene fragment of the TIMP-1shRNA shuttle plasmid 
pShuttle2-GFP-TIMP-1shRNA and the backbone plasmid pAdeno-X by homologous 
recombination in Escherichia coli. Recombinant plasmids were transfected into 
HEK293A cells to package the recombinant adenovirus rvAdeno-XGFP-TIMP-1shRNA. 
The recombinant adenovirus was identified by polymerase chain reaction, and the 
viral titer and infection efficiency were detected using GFP. Polymerase chain 
reaction and restriction endonuclease digestion demonstrated that 
rvAdeno-XGFP-TIMP-1shRNA had been successfully constructed, which has a strong 
ability to infect the kidney. The TIMP-1shRNA adenovirus expression vector was 
successfully constructed using homologous recombination methods.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.January.16.3
PMID: 25729951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2015 Aug;112(8):1613-22. doi: 10.1002/bit.25583. Epub 2015 
Apr 17.

Enhanced production of branched-chain fatty acids by replacing 
β-ketoacyl-(acyl-carrier-protein) synthase III (FabH).

Jiang W(1), Jiang Y(1), Bentley GJ(2), Liu D(2), Xiao Y(1), Zhang F(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Energy, Environmental, and Chemical Engineering, Washington 
University in St. Louis, 1 Brookings Drive, Saint Louis, Missouri, 63130.
(2)Division of Biological & Biomedical Sciences, Washington University in St. 
Louis, Saint Louis, Missouri.
(3)Department of Energy, Environmental, and Chemical Engineering, Washington 
University in St. Louis, 1 Brookings Drive, Saint Louis, Missouri, 63130. 
fzhang@seas.wustl.edu.
(4)Division of Biological & Biomedical Sciences, Washington University in St. 
Louis, Saint Louis, Missouri. fzhang@seas.wustl.edu.

Branched-chain fatty acids (BCFAs) are important precursors for the production 
of advanced biofuels with improved cold-flow properties. Previous efforts in 
engineering type II fatty acid synthase (FAS) for BCFA production suffered from 
low titers and/or the co-production of a large amount of straight-chain fatty 
acids (SCFAs), making it nearly impossible for further conversion of BCFAs to 
branched biofuels. Synthesis of both SCFAs and BCFAs requires FabH, the only 
β-ketoacyl-(acyl-carrier-protein) synthase in Escherichia coli that catalyzes 
the initial condensation reaction between malonyl-ACP and a short-chain 
acyl-CoA. In this study, we demonstrated that replacement of the 
acetyl-CoA-specific E. coli FabH with a branched-chain-acyl-CoA-specific FabH 
directed the flux to the synthesis of BCFAs, resulting in a significant 
enhancement in BCFA titer compared to a strain containing both acetyl-CoA- and 
branched-chain-acyl-CoA-specific FabHs. We further demonstrated that the 
composition of BCFAs can be tuned by engineering the upstream pathway to control 
the supply of different branched-chain acyl-CoAs, leading to the production 
either even-chain-iso-, odd-chain-iso-, or odd-chain-anteiso-BCFAs separately. 
Overall, the top-performing strain from this study produced BCFAs at 126 mg/L, 
comprising 52% of the total free fatty acids.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25583
PMID: 25788017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2003 May;19(3):337-42.

[Soluble expression of peptide containing MUC1/Y-specific epitope in Escherichia 
coli and preparation of the antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang LX(1), Li CH, Sun LY, Wang M, Lu HJ.

Author information:
(1)Departmert of Tumor Molecular Biology, Bejing North Taiping Hospital and 
Beyiing Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing 100039, China. 
Zhanglx@nic.bmi.ac.cn

MUC1 mucin is a high molecular weight, type I transmembrane glycoprotein. High 
and aberrant expression of MUC1 is observed in various types of tumors, which 
make it an ideal target for tumor biotherapy as well as a biomarker for tumor 
diagnosis and prognosis. MUC1/Y is an isoform of MUC1 generated by alternative 
splicing. Specific expression of MUC1/Y in breast cancer as well as its 
involvement in tumor cell signal transduction have been reported. In order to 
purify peptides containing MUC1/Y-specific epitope in E. coli and prepare 
MUC1/Y-specific antibody, DNA fragment encoding the MUC1/Y-specific peptide was 
amplified by PCR using MUC1/Y full length cDNA as the template and cloned into 
fusion expression vector pGEX-2T, resulting pGEX-Y30. DNA sequencing was 
performed to confirm the correct amplification and orientation of the target 
sequence. Competent E. coli DH5alpha was transformed with pGEX-Y30 and the 
expression was induced for 4-5 hours in 0.2 mmol/L IPTG at 30 degrees C and 37 
degrees C. Expressed proteins were released from the cells by ultrasonication or 
B-PER II reagent treatments. The fusion protein GST-Y30 were purified by 
affinity and anion exchange columns and identified by SDS-PAGE and 
Western-blotting. Polyclonal antibody was prepared by immunizing rabbits with 
the GST-Y30 protein for 4 times with intervals of 3 weeks and purified by GST 
column. Western blotting, ELISA and immunohistochemistry analysis were carried 
out using the purified antibody to confirm its MUC1/Y-binding capacity and 
specificity. The expressed fusion protein GST-Y30 is about 31 kD in size and 
represented about 20% of total cellular proteins. The majority of the GST-Y30 
protein existed as soluble form when the induction was carried out at both 30 
degrees C and 37 degrees C. After the two-step purification, the purity of 
GST-Y30 was about 94%. The titer of polyserum generated by GST-Y30 immunization 
was 1:320,000 by ELISA. The antiserum showed MUC1/Y specificity and can 
recognize MUC1/Y on MCF7 cell. The MUC1/Y-specific polyclonal antibody can be 
used for studying the role of MUC1/Y in carcinogenesis.

PMID: 15969018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(4):2383-6. doi: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.4.2383.

Soluble expression of recombinant human SMP30 for detecting serum SMP30 antibody 
levels in hepatocellular carcinoma patients.

Zhang SC(1), Huang P, Zhao YX, Liu SY, He SJ, Xie XX, Luo GR, Zhou SF.

Author information:
(1)School of Pre-clinical Sciences, Guangxi Medical University, Nanning, China.

Senescence marker protein 30 (SMP30), a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
associated antigen, was earlier shown by our research group to be highly 
expressed in HCC paracancerous tissues, but have low levels in HCC tissues. In 
order to detect anti-SMP30 antibody in serum of HCC patients, we established 
pET30a-SMP30 and pColdIII-SMP30 expression systems in Escherichia coli. However, 
the expression product was mainly in the form of inclusion bodies. In this 
research, we used several combinations of chaperones, four molecular chaperone 
plasmids with pET30a-SMP30 and five molecular chaperone plasmids with 
pColdIII-SMP30 to increase the amount of soluble protein. Results showed that 
co-expression of HIS-SMP30 with pTf16, combined with the addition of 
osmosis-regulator, and a two-step expression resulted in the highest enhancement 
of solubility. A total of 175 cases of HCC serum were studied by ELISA to detect 
anti- SMP30 antibody with recombinant SMP30 protein. Some 22 were positive and 
x2 two-sided tests all showed P>0.05, although it remained unclear whether there 
was a relationship between positive cases and clinical diagnostic data.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.4.2383
PMID: 23725145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Sep;37(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.05.006.

Purification of ArcR, an oxidation-sensitive regulatory protein from Bacillus 
licheniformis.

Wohlkönig A(1), Stalon V, Vander Wauven C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Microbiologie, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, 
Belgium.

In Bacillus licheniformis, ArcR, a transcriptional activator of the Crp/Fnr 
family, is required for expression of the anaerobic pathway of arginine 
catabolism, the arginine deiminase pathway. The method described here allows the 
purification of milligram quantities of functional ArcR from a recombinant 
Escherichia coli strain. The solubility properties of ArcR were much exploited 
during the purification process. The protein appeared highly sensitive to 
oxidation. Oxidation-induced precipitation of the protein was attributed to the 
formation of intermolecular disulfide bridges. Alkylation of mutant proteins 
with single substitutions showed that both cysteine residues of the protein, 
C178 and C205, are involved in formation of the disulfide bridges. Substitution 
of both cysteines yielded a functional protein insensitive to oxidation and able 
to form a complex with its cognate target on the DNA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.05.006
PMID: 15294278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. J Food Sci. 2010 May;75(4):M198-203. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01565.x.

Cloning, expression, and genus-specificity analysis of 28-kDa OmpK from Vibrio 
alginolyticus.

Li YD(1), Ren HL, Lu SY, Zhou Y, Han X, Gong BB, Zhang YY, Liu ZS.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Zoonosis Research, Ministry of Education, Inst. of 
Zoonosis, College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Jilin Univ., 
Changchun 130062, PR China.

Some Vibrio species are universal marine pathogens and Vibrio infections are 
often encountered due to consumption of raw or uncooked seafood. The outer 
membrane proteins, playing a key role in interaction between bacteria and hosts, 
are potential candidates for development of vaccine and markers of the genus 
Vibrio. In this study, the ompK (outer membrane protein K) genes of Vibrio 
alginolyticus, V. vulnificus, V. parahaemolyticus, V. fluvialis, and V. mimicu 
were cloned with 798 to 822 nucleotides encoding 266 to 274 amino acids. The 
ompK gene from V. alginolyticus was expressed in Escherichia coli using pET-22b 
expression vector. The recombinant fusion OmpK protein with 6xHis tag was 
purified with nickel chelate affinity chromatography. The polyclonal antibody 
(titer, 1:102400) against V. alginolyticus OmpK was developed in guinea pigs and 
it positively reacted with each of 5 Vibrio species but negative to other 18 
Gram-negative bacterial strains. The result suggests that Vibrio OmpK protein 
could be a genus-specific antigen, which can be used for developing vaccines and 
rapid detection of multiple Vibrio species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01565.x
PMID: 20546410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. Biotechnol J. 2018 Jun;13(6):e1700627. doi: 10.1002/biot.201700627. Epub 2018 
Mar 22.

Design of Fusion Proteins for Efficient and Soluble Production of Immunogenic 
Ebola Virus Glycoprotein in Escherichia coli.

Ji Y(1), Lu Y(1), Yan Y(1), Liu X(2), Su N(2), Zhang C(1)(3), Bi S(4), Xing 
XH(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Industrial Biocatalysis, Institute of Biochemical 
Engineering, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 
100084, P. R. China.
(2)Bio-Cell Co. Ltd., Beijing, 100085, P. R. China.
(3)Centre for Synthetic and Systems Biology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 
100084, P. R. China.
(4)Institute of Virology Disease Control, Chinese Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Beijing, 102206, China.

The Ebola hemorrhagic fever caused by Ebola virus is an extremely dangerous 
disease, and effective therapeutic agents are still lacking. Platforms for the 
efficient production of vaccines are crucial to ensure quick response against an 
Ebola virus outbreak. Ebola virus glycoprotein (EbolaGP) on the virion surface 
is responsible for membrane binding and virus entry, thus becoming the key 
target for vaccine development. However, heterologous expression of this protein 
still faces engineering challenges such as low production levels and insoluble 
aggregation. Here, the authors design and compare various fusion strategies, 
attaching great importance to the solubility-enhancing effect, and tag removal 
process. It is found that a C-terminal intein-based tag greatly enhances the 
solubility of EbolaGP and allows one-step chromatographic purification of the 
untagged EbolaGP through thiol-catalyzed self-cleavage. The purified untagged 
EbolaGP alone or with Freund's adjuvant are highly immunogenic, as confirmed in 
a mouse model. Consequently, the present study puts forward a new strategy for 
the efficient and soluble expression of untagged immunogenic EbolaGP. The 
intein-based protein fusion approach may be of importance for the large-scale 
production of Ebola virus subunit vaccine.

© 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201700627
PMID: 29500882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. J Mol Biol. 2010 Nov 5;403(4):562-77. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.08.048. Epub 2010 
Sep 17.

Enhancing the stability and solubility of the glucocorticoid receptor 
ligand-binding domain by high-throughput library screening.

Seitz T(1), Thoma R, Schoch GA, Stihle M, Benz J, D'Arcy B, Wiget A, Ruf A, 
Hennig M, Sterner R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biophysics and Physical Biochemistry, University of Regensburg, 
Universitätsstrasse 31, D-93053 Regensburg, Germany.

The human glucocorticoid receptor ligand-binding domain (hGR-LBD) is an 
important drug target for the treatment of various diseases. However, the low 
intrinsic stability and solubility of hGR-LBD have rendered its purification and 
biophysical characterization difficult. In order to overcome these problems, we 
have stabilized hGR-LBD by a combination of random mutagenesis and 
high-throughput screening using fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) with 
enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) as folding reporter. Two 
plasmid-encoded gene libraries of hGR-LBD fused to the egfp gene were expressed 
in Escherichia coli, followed by eight rounds of FACS screening, in each of 
which 10(8) cells were analyzed. The hgr-lbd mutants isolated by this approach 
contained numerous amino acid exchanges, and four beneficial ones (A605V, V702A, 
E705G, and M752T) were followed up in detail. Their characterization showed that 
the fluorescence of hGR-LBD-eGFP fusions is correlated linearly with the 
stability and solubility of hGR-LBD in the absence of eGFP. When combined, the 
four exchanges increased the thermal stability of hGR-LBD by more than 8 °C and 
enhanced its purification yield after expression in E. coli by about 26-fold. 
The introduction of three beneficial exchanges into the homologous 
ligand-binding domain of mouse enabled its X-ray structure determination at high 
resolution, which showed how the exchanges stabilize the protein and revealed 
atomic details that will guide future drug design. Our results demonstrate that 
large eGFP fusion libraries can be screened by FACS with extreme sensitivity and 
efficiency, yielding stabilized eukaryotic proteins suitable for biophysical 
characterization and structure determination.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.08.048
PMID: 20850457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1229. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Oct;26(5):335-7.

[Effect of gene optimization on the expression and purification of HDV small 
antigen produced by genetic engineering].

[Article in Chinese]

Ding JY(1), Meng QL, Guo MZ, Yi Y, Su QD, Lu XX, Qiu F, Bi SL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, Beijing 
102206, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of gene optimization on the expression and 
purification of HDV small antigen produced by genetic engineering.
METHODS: Based on the colon preference of E. coli, the HDV small antigen 
original gene from GenBank was optimized. Both the original gene and the 
optimized gene expressed in prokaryotic cells, SDS-PAGE was made to analyze the 
protein expression yield and to decide which protein expression style was more 
proportion than the other. Furthermore, two antigens were purified by 
chromatography in order to compare the purity by SDS-PAGE and Image Lab 
software.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE indicated that the molecular weight of target proteins from 
two groups were the same as we expected. Gene optimization resulted in the 
higher yield and it could make the product more soluble. After chromatography, 
the purity of target protein from optimized gene was up to 96.3%, obviously 
purer than that from original gene.
CONCLUSION: Gene optimization could increase the protein expression yield and 
solubility of genetic engineering HDV small antigen. In addition, the product 
from the optimized gene group was easier to be purified for diagnosis usage.

PMID: 23547452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. J Immunoassay Immunochem. 2016;37(5):515-26. doi: 10.1080/15321819.2016.1162800.

Expression and characterization of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 4 from 
complex canine mammary carcinomas.

Kaur N(1), Sunil Kumar BV(1), Mahajan K(1), Singh S(1).

Author information:
(1)a School of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal 
Sciences University , Ludhiana , India.

All four members of the tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase (TIMP) family 
have been reported to be over-expressed in breast cancer cells in vitro. 
Dysregulation of TIMP-4 expression predicts poor prognosis in cancers. The 
present study evaluated the association of the expression levels of TIMP-4 with 
mammary tumor development in dogs, measured by real-time quantitative reverse 
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Mammary tissue samples were 
collected from healthy canine mammary gland and from tumor subjects. TIMP-4 
expression was found to be upregulated (5.856 times) in complex canine mammary 
carcinomas. Also, TIMP-4 mature peptide was expressed heterologously in E. coli. 
The recombinant protein was purified by Ni- NTA affinity chromatography and 
further confirmed by western blotting. The rTIMP-4 was found to be functionally 
active and could inhibit matrix metalloproteinase 11(MMP-11) activity. 
Immunization of mice with rTIMP-4 resulted in increased antigen specific serum 
antibody titer, and this serum could be suitably used to detect and quantify the 
protein in sera of dogs with mammary tumors. TIMP-4 could act as a marker of 
canine mammary tumors. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of 
heterologous expression of TIMP-4 from complex canine mammary carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1080/15321819.2016.1162800
PMID: 26979595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Jul;22(4):530-2.

[Expression and purification of human MT-2a fusion protein in prokaryotic cells 
and preparation of its antiserum].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou M(1), Yang F, He ZM, Liu XR, Chen ZC, Sun L, Sun Y.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South 
University, Changsha 410078, China. hezhimin2005@yahoo.com

AIM: To express and purify human MT-2a in prokaryotic cells and to prepare the 
MT-2a-specific rabbit antiserum.
METHODS: GST-MT-2a fusion protein was expressed after IPTG induction and further 
purified with Glutathione Sepharose 4B. Then the purified GST-MT-2a fusion 
protein was used to immunize New Zealand rabbits. The titer and specificity of 
rabbit antiserum were evaluated by double immunodiffusion, ELISA and Western 
blot.
RESULTS: GST-MT-2a fusion protein was highly expressed. The final yield of the 
pure GST-MT-2a was about 38 mg per liter of bacterial culture. Its antiserum 
with high specificity and potency was also obtained.
CONCLUSION: The successful expression of GST-MT-2a fusion protein in E. coli and 
the preparation of MT-2a specific rabbit antiserum will be valuable for the 
study on the function of human MT-2a.

PMID: 16806025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Jan 22;508(4):1050-1055. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.11.132. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

Production and characterization of recombinant P1 adhesin essential for 
adhesion, gliding, and antigenic variation in the human pathogenic bacterium, 
Mycoplasma pneumoniae.

Kenri T(1), Kawakita Y(2), Kudo H(3), Matsumoto U(2), Mori S(1), Furukawa Y(4), 
Tahara YO(5), Shibayama K(1), Hayashi Y(3), Arai M(6), Miyata M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology II, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, 
4-7-1 Gakuen, Musashimurayama, Tokyo, 208-0011, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Science, Osaka City University, 3-3-138 Sugimoto, 
Sumiyoshi-ku, Osaka, 558-8585, Japan.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo, 153-8902, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, 1-3 Yamadaoka, 
Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
(5)Graduate School of Science, Osaka City University, 3-3-138 Sugimoto, 
Sumiyoshi-ku, Osaka, 558-8585, Japan; The OCU Advanced Research Institute for 
Natural Science and Technology (OCARINA), Osaka City University, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo, 153-8902, Japan; Department of 
Physics, Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, 
Meguro, Tokyo, 153-8902, Japan.
(7)Graduate School of Science, Osaka City University, 3-3-138 Sugimoto, 
Sumiyoshi-ku, Osaka, 558-8585, Japan; The OCU Advanced Research Institute for 
Natural Science and Technology (OCARINA), Osaka City University, Osaka, Japan. 
Electronic address: miyata@sci.osaka-cu.ac.jp.

Mycoplasma pneumoniae forms an attachment organelle at one cell pole, binds to 
the host cell surface, and glides via a unique mechanism. A 170-kDa protein, P1 
adhesin, present on the organelle surface plays a critical role in the binding 
and gliding process. In this study, we obtained a recombinant P1 adhesin 
comprising 1476 amino acid residues, excluding the C-terminal domain of 109 
amino acids that carried the transmembrane segment, that were fused to 
additional 17 amino acid residues carrying a hexa-histidine (6 × His) tag using 
an Escherichia coli expression system. The recombinant protein showed 
solubility, and chirality in circular dichroism (CD). The results of analytical 
gel filtration, ultracentrifugation, negative-staining electron microscopy, and 
small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) showed that the recombinant protein exists 
in a monomeric form with a uniformly folded structure. SAXS analysis suggested 
the presence of a compact and ellipsoidal structure rather than random or molten 
globule-like conformation. Structure model based on SAXS results fitted well 
with the corresponding structure obtained with cryo-electron tomography from a 
closely related species, M. genitalium. This recombinant protein may be useful 
for structural and functional studies as well as for the preparation of 
antibodies for medical applications.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.11.132
PMID: 30551878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Acta Biochim Pol. 2015;62(3):407-11. doi: 10.18388/abp.2015_1026. Epub 2015 Jul 
21.

A systematic investigation of the stability of green fluorescent protein fusion 
proteins.

Janczak M(1), Bukowski M(1), Górecki A(2), Dubin G(3), Dubin A(1), Wladyka B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Biochemistry, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics 
and Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(2)Department of Physical Biochemistry, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and 
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and 
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland; Malopolska Centre of 
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(4)Department of Analytical Biochemistry, Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics 
and Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland; Malopolska Centre of 
Biotechnology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.

X-ray crystallography provides important insights into structure-function 
relationship in biomolecules. However, protein crystals are usually hard to 
obtain which hinders our understanding of multiple important processes. 
Crystallization requires large amount of protein sample, whereas recombinant 
proteins are often unstable or insoluble. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion 
is one of the approaches to increase protein synthesis, solubility and 
stability, facilitating crystallization. In this study we analyze the influence 
of the linker length, composition and the position of GFP relative to the fusion 
partner on the fusion protein production and stability. To this end, multiple 
constructs of enzymatically impaired variant of PemKSa toxin from Staphylococcus 
aureus CH91 fused to GFP were generated. Fusion protein production in 
Escherichia coli was evaluated. The proteins were purified and their stability 
tested. PemKSa-α14aa-GFP fusion provided best production and stability. Obtained 
results demonstrate the importance of optimization of fusion protein construct, 
including linker selection and the order of fusion partners, in obtaining high 
quantities of stable protein for crystallization.

DOI: 10.18388/abp.2015_1026
PMID: 26192770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Biochem J. 2003 Oct 15;375(Pt 2):471-5. doi: 10.1042/BJ20030748.

Differences in properties between human alphaA- and alphaB-crystallin proteins 
expressed in Escherichia coli cells in response to cold and extreme pH.

Takeuchi S(1), Mandai Y, Otsu A, Shirakawa T, Masuda K, Chinami M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion and Human Behavior, Kyoto University, 
Yoshida-konoe, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

It has been reported that alphaA-crystallin has greater protective effects 
against apoptosis in lens epithelial cells than alphaB-crystallin [Andley, Song, 
Wawrousek, Fleming and Bassnett (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 36823-36831]. Because 
the alphaA-crystallin proteins are specifically expressed in the vertebrate 
lens, we examine the non-specific properties of both alphaA- and 
alphaB-crystallins in an Escherichia coli system. E. coli cells were transformed 
with the inducible protein expression vector pET-11a, harbouring the gene for 
either human alphaA- or alphaB-crystallin, and two other control plasmids, 
pET-1la vector alone or pGEX-2T vector encoding GST (glutathione S-transferase). 
These cells were exposed to various stress conditions, such as cold-shock at 4 
degrees C or extremely low or high pH environments (pH 4.7 or pH 8.0) for 6 h, 
and survival of the host cells and the solubility of the expressed target 
proteins in the cytosol were examined. Under these stress conditions, the cells 
expressing alphaB-crystallin protein demonstrated significantly improved 
survival when compared with the other cells, and the expressed protein in the 
cytosol was almost soluble, in contrast with the alphaA-crystallin protein. 
Differences in the amino acid sequence between the proteins in a 
phenylalanine-rich region next to the N-terminal consensus alpha-crystallin 
domain was considered to be responsible for chaperone activity and cell 
survival.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20030748
PMCID: PMC1223678
PMID: 12826011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2021 Sep 6;9:721794. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.721794. 
eCollection 2021.

Introducing Negatively Charged Residues on the Surface of Fetal Hemoglobin 
Improves Yields in Escherichia coli.

Kettisen K(1), Bülow L(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pure and Applied Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.

Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) has been developed into an important alternative protein 
for oxygen therapeutics. Such applications require extensive amounts of 
proteins, which only can be achieved via recombinant means. However, the 
expression of vertebrate hemoglobins in heterologous hosts is far from trivial. 
There are several issues that need to be dealt with. These include, among 
others, the solubility of the globin chains, equimolar expression of the globin 
chains, and access to high levels of free heme. In this study, we examined the 
impact of introducing negative charges on the surface of HbF. Three different 
HbF mutants were examined, carrying four additional negative charges on the 
α-subunit (rHbFα4), two additional negative charges on the γ-subunit (rHbFγ2) or 
a combination of these (rHbFα4/γ2). The increase in negative surface charge in 
these HbF mutants required the development of an alternate initial capture step 
in the downstream purification procedures. For the rHbFα4 mutant, we achieved a 
significantly enhanced yield of purified HbF with no apparent adverse effects on 
Hb functionality. However, the presence of non-functional Hb portions in the 
rHbFγ2 and rHbFα4/γ2 samples reduced the yields significantly for those mutants 
and indicated an imbalanced expression/association of globin chains. 
Furthermore, the autoxidation studies indicated that the rHbFγ2 and rHbFα4/γ2 
mutants also were less oxidatively stable than rHbFα4 and wt rHbF. The study 
further verified the need for an improved flask culture protocol by optimizing 
cultivation parameters to enable yield-improving qualities of surface-located 
mutations.

Copyright © 2021 Kettisen and Bülow.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.721794
PMCID: PMC8450383
PMID: 34552916

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


1236. Protein Expr Purif. 2002 Apr;24(3):481-8. doi: 10.1006/prep.2001.1599.

A mammalian expression system for rapid production and purification of active 
MAP kinase phosphatases.

Chen P(1), Hutter D, Liu P, Liu Y.

Author information:
(1)Stress Signaling Unit, Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Biology, National 
Institute on Aging-Intramural Research Program, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA.

Expression of enzymatically active mammalian proteins in Escherichia coli can 
proven to be a challenging task due to poor solubility, improper folding, and 
lack of adequate posttranslational modification. Expression of mammalian 
proteins using baculovirus or yeast systems is time-consuming and may also be 
subject to inadequate modification. In order to overcome these technical 
difficulties, we have developed a mammalian expression system for the convenient 
subcloning of cDNA fragments, high-level expression, and one-step purification 
of enzymatically active proteins. The mammalian expression vector pEBG that 
expresses glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins was modified to create an 
SrfI restriction site in the multiple cloning site. The protein coding sequences 
of MAP kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1), MAP kinase phosphatase-2 (MKP-2), and the 
tumor suppressor PTEN were PCR-amplified using Pfu DNA polymerase and cloned 
into the SrfI site through SrfI digestion-coupled ligation. The resulting 
plasmids were transiently transfected into 293T cells using FuGENE 6 
transfection reagent. Forty eight hours after transfection, cells were harvested 
and bioactive recombinant proteins were purified by glutathione-Sepharose beads. 
Protein yield, which ranged from 200 to 700 microg, was more than adequate for 
biochemical studies. The usefulness of this versatile system for studying 
protein function and its potential application for proteomics research are 
discussed.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1006/prep.2001.1599
PMID: 11922765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Vaccine. 2005 Mar 18;23(17-18):2331-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.01.035.

General strategies for efficient adjuvant incorporation of recombinant subunit 
immunogens.

Wikman M(1), Friedman M, Pinitkiatisakul S, Andersson C, Hemphill A, 
Lövgren-Bengtsson K, Lundén A, Ståhl S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, AlbaNova University Center, Kungl Tekniska 
Högskolan (KTH), SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden.

We have previously reported strategies for Escherichia coli production of 
recombinant immunogens fused to hydrophobic peptides or lipid tags to improve 
their capacity to be incorporated into an adjuvant formulation, e.g., 
immunostimulating complexes (iscoms). Recently, we also explored the strong 
interaction between biotin and streptavidin to achieve iscom association of 
recombinant immunogens. Plasmodium falciparum,Toxoplasma gondii and Neospora 
caninum antigens have served as model immunogens in the different studies. 
Generated fusion proteins have been found to be successfully incorporated into 
iscoms and high-titer antigen-specific antibody responses have been obtained 
upon immunization of mice. We believe that the different concepts presented, 
utilizing either hydrophobic peptide or lipid tags, or the recently explored 
biotin-streptavidin principle, offer convenient methods to achieve efficient 
adjuvant incorporation of recombinant immunogens.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.01.035
PMID: 15755622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Vaccine. 2000 Apr 28;18(21):2312-20. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00554-x.

Recombinant expression and neutralizing activity of an MHC class II binding 
epitope of toxic shock syndrome toxin-1.

Rubinchik E(1), Chow AW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of 
British Columbia, Canadian Bacterial Disease Network, and Vancouver Hospital 
Health Sciences Center, Vancouver, Canada.

Toxic shock syndrome (TSS) is caused by the staphylococcal superantigen, TSST-1. 
The MHC class II binding domain of TSST-1 containing a conserved sequence with 
other related staphylococcal enterotoxins, comprising TSST-1 residues 47-64 
[(T(47-64)], was expressed as a fusion protein with either 
glutathione-S-transferase (GST(47-64)), filamentous phage coat protein 
(pIII(47-64)), or E. coli outer membrane porin protein (OprF(47-64)), or 
synthesized as a peptide conjugated to bovine serum albumin, BSA(47-64). 
GST(47-64), OprF(47-64) and BSA(47-64), but not pIII(47-64), all induced 
high-titer T(47-64)-specific antibodies in Balb/c mice. However, only 
anti-GST(47-64) antibodies inhibited (125)I-TSST-1 binding to MHC class II and 
abrogated TSST-1-induced T cell mitogenesis and TNFalpha secretion in human 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Purified GST(47-64) also inhibited 
(125)I-TSST-1 binding in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that 
GST(47-64) may have potential as a recombinant peptide vaccine or TSST-1 
receptor inhibitor against TSS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00554-x
PMID: 10717352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Microbiology (Reading). 2018 Apr;164(4):440-452. doi: 10.1099/mic.0.000622. Epub 
2018 Feb 14.

Optimizing host cell physiology and stress avoidance for the production of 
recombinant human tumour necrosis factor α in Escherichia coli.

Selas Castiñeiras T(1)(2)(3), Williams SG(1), Hitchcock A(1), Cole JA(3)(4), 
Smith DC(1), Overton TW(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Cobra Biologics, Stephenson Building, The Science Park, Keele ST5 5SP, UK.
(2)School of Chemical Engineering, The University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.
(3)Institute of Microbiology & Infection, The University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.
(4)School of Biosciences, The University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham 
B15 2TT, UK.

As high-level recombinant protein production (RPP) exerts a massive stress on 
the production host, an extensive literature on RPP optimization focuses on 
separating the growth phase from RPP production once sufficient biomass has been 
obtained. The aim of the current investigation was to optimize the benefits of 
the relatively neglected alternative strategy to achieve high-level RPP during 
growth by minimizing stress on the host. High yields of the biopharmaceutical 
recombinant human tumour necrosis factor alpha (rhTNFα) were obtained by 
fed-batch fermentation relevant to industrial production based upon parameters 
that most severely affected RPP in preliminary laboratory scale batch cultures. 
Decreasing the inducer concentration and growth temperature, but increasing the 
production period, were far more effective for increasing RPP yields than 
changing the growth phase at which production was induced. High yields of up to 
5 g l-1 of rhTNFα were obtained with minimal plasmid loss, even in synthetic 
media that lack animal-derived components and are therefore fully compliant with 
regulatory requirements. Most of the product was soluble and biologically 
active. In summary, stress minimization was shown to be an effective way to 
optimize the production of rhTNFα. Data generated in shake-flask experiments 
allowed the design of intensified bioreactor cultures in which RPP and growth 
could be balanced, leading to higher yield of both rhTNFα and biomass than with 
previous fermentations. An additional benefit of this approach is avoidance of 
lysis during harvesting and downstream processing.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.000622
PMID: 29458685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Protein Expr Purif. 2001 Feb;21(1):99-104. doi: 10.1006/prep.2000.1346.

Expression and purification of the DNA-binding domain of the human transcription 
factor E2F1.

Zeng W(1), Zhang X, Tu X, Guang S, Xiao Y, Shi Y.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Structural Biology, School of Life Science, University of 
Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, 230027, People's Republic of 
China.

The DNA-binding domain of the human transcription factor E2F1 was expressed in 
Escherichia coli. Through a single purification step using a Ni2+ column, 40-50 
mg of the highly purified recombinant protein was obtained from 1 liter of 
bacterial culture. In addition, it was shown that the recombinant protein had 
higher stability and solubility under acidic conditions than at a neutral or 
alkaline pH. The gel shift assay showed that the recombinant E2F1 DNA-binding 
domain was active in binding a fragment containing E2F sites. Circular dichroism 
measurements revealed that the recombinant protein approximately contains 33% 
alpha-helix, 11% beta-sheet, 5% turn, and 51% random coil at pH 7.0, and there 
was no obvious change for the secondary structure of the recombinant protein 
between pH 4.0 and pH 9.0. A 3D model was obtained by comparative protein 
modeling with a homologous protein whose structure was known by program Modeller 
4. With the program DSSP, the predicted secondary structure content of the model 
was consistent with the result of circular dichroism spectrum.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/prep.2000.1346
PMID: 11162393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2010 Feb;29(1):31-6. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2009.0065.

A monoclonal antibody specific to human myxovirus resistance protein A.

Wu K(1), Liu P, Guo B, Zhang Y, Zhao L, Yang J, Liu H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Tumor Immunology, Cyrus Tang Hematology 
Center, Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, PR China.

Recombinant human myxovirus resistance protein A (MxA) was successfully 
expressed by an Escherichia coli expression system. After immunization and cell 
fusion, a mouse hybridoma (3C2) producing MAbs to MxA was established. Hybridoma 
3C2 was further characterized using indirect ELISA, Western blot analysis, 
immunofluorescent staining, and immunoprecipitation. The ELISA results showed 
that the titer of 3C2 was between 1:6400 and 1:12800 in ascitic fluids. The 
isotype of the monoclonal antibody was tested to be IgG1kappa. 3C2 can also 
specifically recognize human MxA protein in various formats by Western blot 
analysis, immunofluorescent staining, and immunoprecipitation assay. We further 
demonstrated that 3C2 could be used to detected MxA expression induce by type I 
interferon in A549 cell line and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells by 
Western blot in a dose-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2009.0065
PMID: 20199149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Mar;179:105800. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105800. Epub 
2020 Nov 25.

Cloning, purification and biochemical characterization of two glutathione 
S-transferase isoforms from Rutilus frisii kutum.

Ahmadi S(1), Ghafouri H(2), Tarazi S(1), Sarikhan S(3), Kh OS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, University of Guilan, 
Rasht, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, University of Guilan, 
Rasht, Iran; Department of Marine Sciences, The Caspian Sea Basin Research 
Center, University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran. Electronic address: 
h.ghafoori@guilan.ac.ir.
(3)Molecular Bank, Iranian Biological Resource Center (IBRC), ACECR, Tehran, 
Iran.

Glutathione S-transferases are an important multifunctional family of 
intracellular enzymes that their detoxification function has been reported in 
fishes since 1970, but no studies have been conducted on Rutilus frisii kutum 
GSTs yet. In the present study, RkGSTA and RkGSTM encoding genes were cloned and 
sequenced and their nucleotide sequences were submitted to NCBI GenBank. In 
order to reduce the expression challenges of recombinant proteins including low 
solubility, low yield and insufficient purity issues in E. coli, the pKJE7 
chaperone plasmid was used to increase the recovery of expressed proteins in the 
soluble fractions. Best expression clone was selected for purification by Ni-NTA 
affinity chromatography. The three-dimensional structural models were 
constructed by I-TASSER. The optimum temperature of purified RkGSTA and RkGSTM 
was 35 and 30 °C, with optimum activity at pH 9.0 and 8.5, respectively. The 
thermostability and pH stability results indicated that RkGSTA is more 
heat-tolerant than RkGSTM though both of them retained more than 80% of their 
activities at pH 6.5 to 9.0. Overall, this study represents a comprehensive 
perspective on the structural and biochemical aspects of this enzyme that would 
be even used in further researches such as drug design studies in order to 
eliminate toxicant compounds from the body and environment of fishes to protect 
them against undesired harmful damages.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105800
PMID: 33248224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. J Virol. 2001 Aug;75(15):6758-68. doi: 10.1128/JVI.75.15.6758-6768.2001.

African swine fever virus structural protein pE120R is essential for virus 
transport from assembly sites to plasma membrane but not for infectivity.

Andrés G(1), García-Escudero R, Viñuela E, Salas ML, Rodríguez JM.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas-Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Facultad de 
Ciencias, Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain. gandres@cbm.uam.ed

This report examines the role of African swine fever virus (ASFV) structural 
protein pE120R in virus replication. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that 
protein pE120R localizes at the surface of the intracellular virions. Consistent 
with this, coimmunoprecipitation assays showed that protein pE120R binds to the 
major capsid protein p72. Moreover, it was found that, in cells infected with an 
ASFV recombinant that inducibly expresses protein p72, the incorporation of 
pE120R into the virus particle is dependent on p72 expression. Protein pE120R 
was also studied using an ASFV recombinant in which E120R gene expression is 
regulated by the Escherichia coli lac repressor-operator system. In the absence 
of inducer, pE120R expression was reduced about 100-fold compared to that 
obtained with the parental virus or the recombinant virus grown under permissive 
conditions. One-step virus growth curves showed that, under conditions that 
repress pE120R expression, the titer of intracellular progeny was similar to the 
total virus yield obtained under permissive conditions, whereas the 
extracellular virus yield was about 100-fold lower than in control infections. 
Immunofluorescence and electron microscopy demonstrated that, under restrictive 
conditions, intracellular mature virions are properly assembled but remain 
confined to the replication areas. Altogether, these results indicate that 
pE120R is necessary for virus dissemination but not for virus infectivity. The 
data also suggest that protein pE120R might be involved in the 
microtubule-mediated transport of ASFV particles from the viral factories to the 
plasma membrane.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.75.15.6758-6768.2001
PMCID: PMC114402
PMID: 11435554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Jun;59(2):203-14. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.01.022. Epub 
2008 Feb 15.

Cloning, expression, purification, and characterization of a designer protein 
with repetitive sequences.

Gerber S(1), Kirchhof K, Kressler J, Schmelzer CE, Scholz C, Hertel TC, Pietzsch 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Natural Sciences I, 
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Biozentrum, Weinbergweg 22, 06099 
Halle (Saale), Germany.

An artificial protein containing alternating hydrophilic-hydrophobic blocks of 
amino acids was designed in order to mimic the structure of synthetic multiblock 
copolymers. The hydrophobic block consisted of the six amino acids Ala Ile Leu 
Leu Ile Ile (AILLII) and the hydrophilic block of the eight amino acids Thr Ser 
Glu Asp Asp Asn Asn Gln (TSEDDNNQ). The coding DNA sequence of the cluster was 
inserted into an commercial pET 30a(+) vector using a two step strategy. The 
expression of the artificial protein in Escherichia coli was optimized using a 
temperature shift strategy. Only at cultivation temperature of 24 degrees C 
after induction expression was observed, whereas at 30 and 37 degrees C no 
target protein could be detected. Cells obtained from a 15L bioreactor 
cultivation of E. coli were disintegrated by mechanical methods. Interestingly, 
glass bead milling and high pressure homogenization resulted in a different 
solubility of the target protein. The further purification was carried out by 
affinity chromatography using the soluble homogenized protein. Extreme 
conditions (6M urea, 0.5M NaCl) were applied in order to prevent aggregation to 
insoluble particles. The designer protein showed an extremely high tendency to 
form dimers or trimers caused by intermolecular interactions which were even not 
broken under the conditions of SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, rendering 
the behavior during purification different from proteins usually found in 
nature. The protein preparation was not completely pure according to SDS-PAGE 
stained by Coomassie blue or silver. In MALDI-TOF-MS, nano-ESI qTOF-MS of the 
entire protein preparation and nano-ESI-MS after digestion by trypsin and 
chymotrypsin impurities were not detectable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.01.022
PMID: 18359248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2009 Jul;25(7):999-1006.

[Prokaryotic expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of TRalphaA in 
Japanese flounder Paralichthys olivaceus].

[Article in Chinese]

Jia L(1), Shi Z, Zhang J.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai 201306, 
China.

To study the role of the thyroid hormone receptor TRalphaA involved in the 
process of the metamorphic development of Japanese flounder, we firstly cloned 
the TRalphaA gene, then ligated into the fusion expression vector pET30a and 
expressed in Escherichia coli DE3 (BL21) host cells. After induced for 4 h with 
1 mmol/L Isopropyl beta-D-Thiogalactoside, the target fusion protein was 
successfully expressed and identified in inclusion bodies by SDS-PAGE and 
Western blotting. The recombinant protein was denatured and purified by His-Bind 
resin, then renatured through gradient washing on His-bind resin column. After 
that, polyclonal antibody was prepared by immunizing New Zealand rabbits with 
purified protein. Dot blotting analysis showed the antibody with the titer of 
1:200 000 reacted specifically to the expressed recombinant protein. 
Furthermore, a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was performed to identify the 
specific binding between the antibody and TRalphaA in living cells of Japanese 
flounder. The result showed that thyroid hormone was involved in the alkaline 
phosphatase (ALP) gene transcriptional regulation through TRalphaA in vivo.

PMID: 19835140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun. 2020 Jul 1;76(Pt 7):309-313. doi: 
10.1107/S2053230X20008584. Epub 2020 Jul 1.

Structural characterization of borneol dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas sp. 
TCU-HL1.

Khine AA(1), Chen HP(1), Huang KF(2), Ko TP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 
97004, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Biological Chemistry, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan.

During the microbial degradation of borneol, a bicyclic plant monoterpene, it is 
first converted into camphor by borneol dehydrogenase (BDH) and then enters a 
known camphor-degradation pathway. Previously, a recombinant Pseudomonas BDH was 
found in inclusion bodies when expressed in Escherichia coli. After refolding, 
it was still unstable and was difficult to concentrate. Here, the 
protein-expression conditions were improved by changing the medium from lysogeny 
broth to Terrific Broth, yielding a soluble form of the enzyme with higher 
activity. The protein was crystallized and its 3D structure was determined by 
X-ray diffraction. Like other known homologues such as quinuclidinone reductase, 
the protein forms a tetramer with subunits containing Rossmann folds. Structural 
comparison revealed major differences in the C-terminal helices and the 
associated loops. It is likely that these regions contain the determinants for 
substrate recognition.

open access.

DOI: 10.1107/S2053230X20008584
PMCID: PMC7336358
PMID: 32627746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2018 Nov 25;34(11):1784-1793. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.180277.

[Optimized expression of heparin sulfotransferases and their application in 
sulfation of animal derived heparin].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhou Z(1)(2), Wang B(1)(2), Xu R(1)(2), Li Q(1)(2), Du G(1)(2), Kang Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.

Heparin is a very important anticoagulant drug. Currently, heparin is mainly 
extracted from porcine mucosa. However, animal-derived heparin shows low 
anticoagulant activity due to the low proportion of the anticoagulant active 
unit, the GlcNS6S-GlcA-GlcNS6S3S-Ido2S-GlcNS6S pentasaccharide. In this study we 
proposed an enzymatic strategy to sulfate the animal-sourced heparin to increase 
the proportion of anticoagulant pentasaccharide and the anticoagulant activity. 
First, three sulfotransferases HS2ST, HS6ST, and HS3ST were expressed 
tentatively in Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris. After measuring the 
sulfotransferase activity, we confirmed P. pastoris GS115 is the better host for 
sulfotransferases production. Then, the maltose binding protein (MBP) and 
thioredoxin (TrxA) were fused separately to the N-terminal of sulfotransferases 
to increase enzyme solubility. As a result, the yields of HS2ST and HS6ST were 
increased to (839±14) U/L and (792±23) U/L, respectively. Subsequent sulfation 
of the animal-sourced heparin with the recombinant HS2ST, HS6ST and HS3ST 
increased the anticoagulant activity from (76±2) IU/mg to (189±17) IU/mg.

Publisher: 
肝素是一种重要的凝血药物，目前主要依赖于动物小肠粘膜的提取。动物源肝素含有的抗凝血活性五糖单位GlcNS6S-GlcA-GlcNS6S3S-Ido2S-GlcNS6S 
少，抗凝血活性低下。文中提出并验证了一种基于酶法催化动物源肝素，提高其硫酸化程度和抗凝血活性的方法。通过比较3 种硫酸转移酶肝素-2-硫酸转移酶 
(Heparan sulfate-2-O-sulfotransferase，HS2ST)、肝素-6-硫酸转移酶 (Heparan sulfate-6-O- 
sulfotransferase，)、肝素-3-硫酸转移酶 (Heparan sulfate-3-O-sulfotransferase，HS3ST) 
在重组大肠杆菌及重组毕赤酵母中表达，确定了毕赤酵母作为3 种硫酸转移酶的表达宿主；进一步通过N 端融合麦芽糖融合蛋白MBP 和硫氧还蛋白TrxA，HS2ST 
和HS6ST 的酶表达水平分别提高至 (839±14) U/L 和 (792±23) U/L。通过3 种硫酸转移酶HS2ST、HS6ST 和HS3ST 
共同催化动物源肝素，其抗凝血活性由 (76±2) IU/mg 提高至 (189±17) IU/mg。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.180277
PMID: 30499274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. Immunol Invest. 2006;35(1):47-61. doi: 10.1080/08820130500496795.

Establishment of the mouse model by rabbit antiserum specific to EC1-2 or EC3-4 
epitopes for studying the pathogenesis of pemphigus vulgaris.

Pan M(1), Zhao X, Xue F, Li W, Zheng J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Rui Jin Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China, 200025.

The research goal was to establish the neonatal mouse model by specific rabbit 
anti EC1-2 or EC3-4 antiserum for the purpose of studying pemphigus vulgaris 
(PV) pathogenesis. RNA was extracted from human keratinocytes. The cDNAs was 
synthesized by reverse transcription. Amplified EC1-2 or EC3-4 genes were 
inserted into pGEX-4T expression plasmids to constitute the recombinant 
plasmids, and transformed into E.coli. for the expression of the fusion 
proteins. The purified fusion proteins were used to immunize New Zealand white 
rabbits to obtain the specific anti EC1-2 or EC3-4 antisera. IgG fractions from 
the antisera were purified and passively transferred intradermally into the 
upper back skin of neonatal BALB/c mice. Histologic, ultrastructural, and 
immunofluorescence features of PV were evaluated in these mice. PV features were 
shown in the mice injected with anti EC1-2 antibody, erythema on the flanks and 
positive Nikolsky sign. The histology showed intraepidermal vesicle formation 
and acantholytic cells within. Acantholysis, but no clinical symptoms, was seen 
in the mice treated with the antibody specific to EC3-4. Additionally, skin 
sections from the abdomen from these neonatal mice were cryo-sectioned for 
direct-immunofluorescence. FITC-conjugated IgG antibody deposit between the 
keratinocytes throughout the epidermis. The indirect immunofluorescence with 
monkey esophagus showed the presence of anti-intracellular antibody with a titer 
of 1:40. On electronic microscopy, intercellular spaces (ICS) were widened and 
the desmosomes were split or dissolved. A novel PV mouse model was established 
by treatment with the specific rabbit antiserum. These data confirmed that both 
EC1-2 and EC3-4 are pathogenic epitopes in PVA, but EC1-2 is more dominant.

DOI: 10.1080/08820130500496795
PMID: 16531329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Fish Physiol Biochem. 2011 Sep;37(3):649-56. doi: 10.1007/s10695-010-9465-9. 
Epub 2011 Jan 20.

Expression, purification and characterization of yellow grouper Epinephelus 
awoara regulator of G protein signaling 16 protein.

Wang L(1), Wu X.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Genetics and Breeding of State Ethnic Affairs 
Commission and Ministry of Education, College of Life Science and Technology, 
SouthWest University for Nationalities, 610041 Chengdu, China.

Regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins are a family of proteins, which 
accelerate GTPase-activity intrinsic to the alpha subunits of heterotrimeric 
G-proteins and play crucial roles in the physiological control of G-protein 
signaling. Here, yellow grouper RGS16 protein was expressed in Escherichia coli 
and purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. The expression level of the 
fusion protein was up to 30% of the total cellular protein.Western blotting 
analysis showed that a band with the molecular mass of about 21 Kda was 
detected. The purified recombinant protein was used to prepare polyclonal 
antibody, and antiserum obtained was highly specific with the titer of over 
1:32,000. Additionally, RGS16 protein was expressed in the Tn-5B1-4 insect 
cells. Western blotting analysis revealed that the expressed protein had 
immunoreactivity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10695-010-9465-9
PMID: 21249447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Sci Rep. 2017 Nov 23;7(1):16139. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-16167-x.

Prokaryotic soluble expression and purification of bioactive human fibroblast 
growth factor 21 using maltose-binding protein.

Nguyen AN(1), Song JA(1), Nguyen MT(1), Do BH(1), Kwon GG(1), Park SS(1), Yoo 
J(1), Jang J(1), Jin J(2), Osborn MJ(1)(3), Jang YJ(4), Thi Vu TT(1), Oh HB(5), 
Choe H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, 05505, Korea.
(2)New Drug Development Center, Osong Medical Innovation Foundation, 123 Osong 
Saengmyung-Ro, Cheongju, Chungcheongbuk-Do, 28160, Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, 
Center for Genome Engineering, Stem Cell Institute, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, 55455, USA.
(4)Department of Physiology, Cell Dysfunction Research Center, University of 
Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, 05505, Korea.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine 
and Asan Medical Center, Seoul, 05505, Korea. hboh@amc.seoul.kr.
(6)Department of Physiology, Asan-Minnesota Institute for Innovating 
Transplantation, Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, 05505, Korea. 
hchoe@ulsan.ac.kr.

Human fibroblast growth factor 21 (hFGF21) has been characterized as an 
important regulator of glucose and lipid metabolism homeostasis. Here, to 
produce hFGF21 efficiently in Escherichia coli, the expression and solubility of 
hFGF21 were tested and optimised by fusing the protein with one of eight tags: 
hexahistidine (His6), thioredoxin (Trx), small ubiquitin-related modifier 
(Sumo), glutathione S-transferase (GST), maltose-binding protein (MBP), 
N-utilisation substance protein A (NusA), human protein disulphide isomerase 
(PDI), and the b'a' domain of PDI (PDIb'a'). Each tag increased solubility of 
the protein when the expression temperature was 18°C. Unlike many other tags 
that were tested, MBP significantly enhanced the solubility of the protein also 
in the culture condition at 37°C. Thus, the MBP-hFGF21 construct was further 
pursued for optimisation of affinity chromatography purification. After tag 
removal, 8.1 mg of pure hFGF21 was obtained as a final product from 500 mL of 
starting culture. The protein was then characterised by mass spectroscopy and an 
in vitro functional assay using NIH-3T3 cells transfected with a β-klotho 
reporter gene. These characteristics are similar to those of commercial hFGF21. 
Thus, the MBP tag is useful for efficient prokaryotic production and 
purification of bioactive hFGF21.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-16167-x
PMCID: PMC5700921
PMID: 29170489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1251. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jan;45(1):107-14. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.07.009. Epub 
2005 Aug 8.

Purification and antigenicity of two recombinant forms of Boophilus microplus 
yolk pro-cathepsin expressed in inclusion bodies.

Leal AT(1), Pohl PC, Ferreira CA, Nascimento-Silva MC, Sorgine MH, Logullo C, 
Oliveira PL, Farias SE, da Silva Vaz I Jr, Masuda A.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida 
Bento Gonçalves, 9500, Porto Alegre-RS 91501-970, Brazil.

The tick Boophilus microplus is a bovine ectoparasite present in tropical and 
subtropical areas of the world and the use of vaccines is a promising method for 
tick control. BYC is an aspartic proteinase found in eggs that is involved in 
the embryogenesis of B. microplus and was proposed as an important antigen in 
the development of an anti-tick vaccine. The cDNA of BYC was amplified by PCR 
and cloned for expression in two forms with and without thioredoxin fusion 
protein (Trx), coding recombinant proteins named rBYC-Trx and rBYC, 
respectively. Expression, solubility, and yields of the two forms were analyzed. 
The recombinant proteins were expressed in inclusion bodies (IBs) and three 
denaturant agents (N-lauroyl sarcosine, guanidine hydrochloride, and urea) were 
tested for IBs solubilization. The N-lauroyl sarcosine solubilized 90.4 and 
92.4% of rBYC-Trx and rBYC IBs, respectively, and was the most efficient 
denaturant. Two recombinant forms were affinity-purified by Ni2+-Sepharose under 
denaturing conditions. After dialysis, the yield of soluble protein was 84.1% 
for r-BYC-Trx and 5.9% for rBYC. These proteins were immune-reactive against 
sera from rabbit, mouse, and bovine previously immunized with native BYC, which 
confirms the antigenicity of the recombinant BYCs expressed in the Escherichia 
coli system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.07.009
PMID: 16122942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. J Biomol NMR. 2012 Apr;52(4):303-13. doi: 10.1007/s10858-012-9610-0. Epub 2012 
Mar 3.

Segmental isotope labeling of proteins for NMR structural study using a protein 
S tag for higher expression and solubility.

Kobayashi H(1), Swapna GV, Wu KP, Afinogenova Y, Conover K, Mao B, Montelione 
GT, Inouye M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Center for 
Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, 679 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.

A common obstacle to NMR studies of proteins is sample preparation. In many 
cases, proteins targeted for NMR studies are poorly expressed and/or expressed 
in insoluble forms. Here, we describe a novel approach to overcome these 
problems. In the protein S tag-intein (PSTI) technology, two tandem 92-residue 
N-terminal domains of protein S (PrS(2)) from Myxococcus xanthus is fused at the 
N-terminal end of a protein to enhance its expression and solubility. Using 
intein technology, the isotope-labeled PrS(2)-tag is replaced with non-isotope 
labeled PrS(2)-tag, silencing the NMR signals from PrS(2)-tag in 
isotope-filtered (1)H-detected NMR experiments. This method was applied to the 
E. coli ribosome binding factor A (RbfA), which aggregates and precipitates in 
the absence of a solubilization tag unless the C-terminal 25-residue segment is 
deleted (RbfAΔ25). Using the PrS(2)-tag, full-length well-behaved RbfA samples 
could be successfully prepared for NMR studies. PrS(2) (non-labeled)-tagged RbfA 
(isotope-labeled) was produced with the use of the intein approach. The 
well-resolved TROSY-HSQC spectrum of full-length PrS(2)-tagged RbfA superimposes 
with the TROSY-HSQC spectrum of RbfAΔ25, indicating that PrS(2)-tag does not 
affect the structure of the protein to which it is fused. Using a smaller 
PrS-tag, consisting of a single N-terminal domain of protein S, triple resonance 
experiments were performed, and most of the backbone (1)H, (15)N and (13)C 
resonance assignments for full-length E. coli RbfA were determined. Analysis of 
these chemical shift data with the Chemical Shift Index and heteronuclear 
(1)H-(15)N NOE measurements reveal the dynamic nature of the C-terminal segment 
of the full-length RbfA protein, which could not be inferred using the truncated 
RbfAΔ25 construct. CS-Rosetta calculations also demonstrate that the core 
structure of full-length RbfA is similar to that of the RbfAΔ25 construct.

DOI: 10.1007/s10858-012-9610-0
PMCID: PMC4117381
PMID: 22389115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2009 Nov;49(11):1527-33.

[Expression, purification and immunogenicity of human papillomavirus type 11 
virus-like particles from Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Yan C(1), Li S, Wang J, Wei M, Huang B, Zhuang Y, Li Z, Pan H, Zhang J, Xia N.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in infectious 
diseases, Life Science School, Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for 
Cell Biology and Tumor Cell Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, 
China. yangchunyan@xmu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To produce human papillomavirus type 11 virus-like particles (HPV11 
VLPs) from Escherichia coli and to investigate its immunogenicity and type cross 
neutralization nature.
METHODS: We expressed the major capsid protein of HPV11 (HPV11-L1) in 
Escherichia coli ER2566 in non fusion fashion and purified by amino sulfate 
precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography and hydrophobic interaction 
chromatography, sequentially. Then we removed the reductant DTT to have the 
purified HPV11-L1 self-assemble into VLPs in vitro. We investigated the 
morphology of these VLPs with dynamic light scattering and transmission electron 
microscopy. We assayed the immunogenicity of the resultant HPV11 VLPs by 
vaccinations on mice and evaluated by HPV6/11/16/18 pseudovirion neutralization 
cell models.
RESULTS: We expressed HPV11 L1 in Escherichia coli with two forms, soluble and 
inclusion body. The soluble HPV11 L1 with over 95% purity can self assemble to 
VLPs in high efficiency. Morphologically, these VLPs were globular, homogeneous 
and with a diameter of - 50 nm, which is quite similar with native HPV11 
virions. The half effective dosage (ED50) of HPV11 VLPs is 0.031 microg, and the 
maximum titer of neutralizing antibody elicited is averaged to 10(6). The cross 
neutralization activity (against HPV6/16/18) of the anti-HPV11 serum was found 
to have exact correlation to the inter-type homology in amino acid alignment.
CONCLUSION: We can provide HPV11 VLPs with highly immunogenicity from prokaryote 
expression system, which may pave a new way for research and development of 
prophylactic vaccine for HPV11.

PMID: 20112683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Curr Protoc Neurosci. 2020 Dec;94(1):e107. doi: 10.1002/cpns.107.

Development, Screening, and Validation of Camelid-Derived Nanobodies for 
Neuroscience Research.

Gavira-O'Neill CE(1), Dong JX(1)(2), Trimmer JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Membrane Biology, University of California Davis 
School of Medicine, Davis, California.
(2)Current address: Research Center for Innovative Anti-Cancer Drugs, Research 
Institute of Tsinghua University in Shenzhen, Shenzhen, China.

Erratum in
    Curr Protoc. 2021 Jul;1(7):e193.

Nanobodies (nAbs) are recombinant antigen-binding variable domain fragments 
obtained from heavy-chain-only immunoglobulins. Among mammals, these are unique 
to camelids (camels, llamas, alpacas, etc.). Nanobodies are of great use in 
biomedical research due to their efficient folding and stability under a variety 
of conditions, as well as their small size. The latter characteristic is 
particularly important for nAbs used as immunolabeling reagents, since this can 
improve penetration of cell and tissue samples compared to conventional 
antibodies, and also reduce the gap distance between signal and target, thereby 
improving imaging resolution. In addition, their recombinant nature allows for 
unambiguous definition and permanent archiving in the form of DNA sequence, 
enhanced distribution in the form of sequences or plasmids, and easy and 
inexpensive production using well-established bacterial expression systems, such 
as the IPTG induction method described here. This article will review the basic 
workflow and process for developing, screening, and validating novel nAbs 
against neuronal target proteins. The protocols described make use of the most 
common nAb development method, wherein an immune repertoire from an immunized 
llama is screened via phage display technology. Selected nAbs can then be taken 
through validation assays for use as immunolabels or as intrabodies in neurons. 
© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC. Basic Protocol 1: Total RNA isolation from camelid 
leukocytes Basic Protocol 2: First-strand cDNA synthesis; VH H and VH repertoire 
PCR Basic Protocol 3: Preparation of the phage display library Basic Protocol 4: 
Panning of the phage display library Basic Protocol 5: Small-scale nAb 
expression Basic Protocol 6: Sequence analysis of selected nAb clones Basic 
Protocol 7: Nanobody validation as immunolabels Basic Protocol 8: Generation of 
nAb-pEGFP mammalian expression constructs Basic Protocol 9: Nanobody validation 
as intrabodies Support Protocol 1: ELISA for llama serum testing, phage titer, 
and screening of selected clones Support Protocol 2: Amplification of helper 
phage stock Support Protocol 3: nAb expression in amber suppressor E. coli 
bacterial strains.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cpns.107
PMCID: PMC7673645
PMID: 33185319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors have no 
conflict of interest to declare.


1255. Biotechnol Lett. 2004 Apr;26(7):595-601. doi: 
10.1023/b:bile.0000021963.31863.a4.

The impact of dnaKJ overexpression on recombinant protein solubility results 
from antagonistic effects on the control of protein quality.

Petersson L(1), Carrió MM, Vera A, Villaverde A.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Genètica i de Microbiologia, Institut de Biotecnologia i de 
Biomedicina, Universitat Autònoma de, Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193 Barcelona, 
Spain.

We have produced increasing levels of DnaK and its co-chaperone DnaJ along with 
the model VP1LAC misfolding-prone protein, to explore the role of DnaK on the 
management of Escherichia coli inclusion bodies. While relative solubility of 
VP1LAC is progressively enhanced, the heat-shock response is down-regulated as 
revealed by decreasing levels of GroEL. This is accompanied by an increasing 
yield of VP1LAC and a non-regular evolution of its insoluble fraction, at 
moderate levels of DnaK resulting in more abundant inclusion bodies. Also, the 
impact of chaperone co-expression is much more pronounced in wild type cells 
than in a DnaK- mutant, probably due to the different background of heat shock 
proteins in these cells. The involvement of DnaK in the supervision of 
misfolding proteins is then pictured as a dynamic balance between its immediate 
holding and folding activities, and the side-effect downregulation of the heat 
shock response though the limitation of other chaperone and proteases 
activities.

DOI: 10.1023/b:bile.0000021963.31863.a4
PMID: 15168861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Nov;80(1):145-51. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.06.017. Epub 
2011 Jul 2.

Solubility partner IF2 Domain I enables high yield synthesis of transducible 
transcription factors in Escherichia coli.

Yang WC(1), Welsh JP, Lee J, Cooke JP, Swartz JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Since the discovery that somatic cells could be reprogrammed back to a 
pluripotent state through the viral expression of a certain set of transcription 
factors, there has been great interest in reprogramming using a safer and more 
clinically relevant protein-based approach. However, the search for an efficient 
reprogramming approach utilizing the transcription factors in protein form 
requires a significant amount of protein material. Milligram quantities of 
transcription factors are challenging to obtain due to low yields and poor 
solubility. In this work, we describe enhanced production of the pluripotency 
transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, Nanog, and Lin28 after fusing them to a 
solubility partner, IF2 Domain I (IF2D1). We expressed and purified milligram 
quantities of the fusion proteins. Though the transcription factor passenger 
proteins became insoluble after removal of the IF2D1, the un-cleaved Oct4, Sox2, 
Klf4, and Nanog fusion proteins exhibited specific binding to their consensus 
DNA sequences. However, when we administered the un-cleaved IF2D1-Oct4-R9 and 
IF2D1-Sox2-R9 to fibroblasts and measured their ability to influence 
transcriptional activity, we found that they were not fully bioactive; 
IF2D1-Oct4-R9 and IF2D1-Sox2-R9 influenced only a subset of their downstream 
gene targets. Thus, while the IF2D1 solubility partner enabled soluble 
production of the fusion protein at high levels, it did not yield fully 
bioactive transcription factors.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.06.017
PMCID: PMC3183262
PMID: 21757009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2019 Apr 4;85(8):e03084-18. doi: 10.1128/AEM.03084-18. 
Print 2019 Apr 15.

Artificial Fusion of mCherry Enhances Trehalose Transferase Solubility and 
Stability.

Mestrom L(1), Marsden SR(1), Dieters M(1), Achterberg P(1), Stolk L(1), Bento 
I(2), Hanefeld U(1), Hagedoorn PL(3).

Author information:
(1)Biocatalysis, Department of Biotechnology, Delft University of Technology, 
Delft, The Netherlands.
(2)EMBL Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Biocatalysis, Department of Biotechnology, Delft University of Technology, 
Delft, The Netherlands P.L.Hagedoorn@tudelft.nl.

Erratum in
    Appl Environ Microbiol. 2019 Jul 1;85(14):

LeLoir glycosyltransferases are important biocatalysts for the production of 
glycosidic bonds in natural products, chiral building blocks, and 
pharmaceuticals. Trehalose transferase (TreT) is of particular interest since it 
catalyzes the stereo- and enantioselective α,α-(1→1) coupling of a nucleotide 
sugar donor and monosaccharide acceptor for the synthesis of disaccharide 
derivatives. Heterologously expressed thermophilic trehalose transferases were 
found to be intrinsically aggregation prone and are mainly expressed as 
catalytically active inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli To disfavor protein 
aggregation, the thermostable protein mCherry was explored as a fluorescent 
protein tag. The fusion of mCherry to trehalose transferase from Pyrobaculum 
yellowstonensis (PyTreT) demonstrated increased protein solubility. Chaotropic 
agents like guanidine or the divalent cations Mn(II), Ca(II), and Mg(II) 
enhanced the enzyme activity of the fusion protein. The thermodynamic 
equilibrium constant, K eq, for the reversible synthesis of trehalose from 
glucose and a nucleotide sugar was determined in both the synthesis and 
hydrolysis directions utilizing UDP-glucose and ADP-glucose, respectively. 
UDP-glucose was shown to achieve higher conversions than ADP-glucose, 
highlighting the importance of the choice of nucleotide sugars for LeLoir 
glycosyltransferases under thermodynamic control.IMPORTANCE The heterologous 
expression of proteins in Escherichia coli is of great relevance for their 
functional and structural characterization and applications. However, the 
formation of insoluble inclusion bodies is observed in approximately 70% of all 
cases, and the subsequent effects can range from reduced soluble protein yields 
to a complete failure of the expression system. Here, we present an efficient 
methodology for the production and analysis of a thermostable, aggregation-prone 
trehalose transferase (TreT) from Pyrobaculum yellowstonensis via its fusion 
with mCherry as a thermostable fluorescent protein tag. This fusion strategy 
allowed for increased enzyme stability and solubility and could be applied to 
other (thermostable) proteins, allowing rapid visualization and quantification 
of the mCherry-fused protein of interest. Finally, we have demonstrated that the 
enzymatic synthesis of trehalose from glucose and a nucleotide sugar is 
reversible by approaching the thermodynamic equilibrium in both the synthesis 
and hydrolysis directions. Our results show that uridine establishes an 
equilibrium constant which is more in favor of the product trehalose than when 
adenosine is employed as the nucleotide under identical conditions. The 
influence of different nucleotides on the reaction can be generalized for all 
LeLoir glycosyltransferases under thermodynamic control as the position of the 
equilibrium depends solely on the reaction conditions and is not affected by the 
nature of the catalyst.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.03084-18
PMCID: PMC6450025
PMID: 30737350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Apr;180:105818. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105818. Epub 
2021 Jan 5.

Construction, expression and purification of a novel CadF-based multiepitope 
antigen and its immunogenic polyclonal antibody specific to Campylobacter jejuni 
and Campylobacter coli.

Wenbap P(1), Seetang-Nun Y(2), Luangtongkum T(3), Khunrae P(1), Tuitemwong P(4), 
Rattanarojpong T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, King Mongkut's University of 
Technology Thonburi, Bangkok, 10140, Thailand.
(2)Food Safety Center, Institute for Scientific and Technological Research and 
Services, King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi, Bangkok, 10140, 
Thailand.
(3)Department of Veterinary Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Science, 
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, King Mongkut's University of 
Technology Thonburi, Bangkok, 10140, Thailand; Food Safety Center, Institute for 
Scientific and Technological Research and Services, King Mongkut's University of 
Technology Thonburi, Bangkok, 10140, Thailand.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, King Mongkut's University of 
Technology Thonburi, Bangkok, 10140, Thailand. Electronic address: 
triwit.rat@kmutt.ac.th.

Campylobacteriosis is a disease in humans caused by the infection from 
Campylobacter spp. Human cases are mainly due to Campylobacter jejuni, although 
C. coli can cause gastroenteritis in humans as well. The bacteria are commensal 
in chicken tract and can be contaminated into chicken products during 
processing. Obviously, detecting reagents such as a specific antibody is 
essential for the development of immune-based detection methods for C. jejuni or 
C. coli. In this study, in silico techniques were used to design a chimeric 
recombinant antigen, named multiepitope antigen (MEA), for the production of 
specific polyclonal antibody. To design MEA polypeptide based on C. jejuni 
fibronectin-binding protein or CadF, four conserved and unique antigenic 
peptides were identified and fused together directly. The C. jejuni CadF-based 
MEA polypeptide fused with two single six-histidine tags at both C- and 
N-terminal ends was expressed under Escherichia coli expression system. The 
recombinant MEA was successfully produced and purified by Ni-NTA resin with a 
high satisfactory yield. Indirect ELISA results showed that anti-MEA polyclonal 
antibody derived from rabbit serum had a titer of 16,000, indicating high 
antigenicity of MEA polypeptide. Dot blot results also confirmed that the 
produced anti-MEA antibody could specifically recognize both C. jejuni and C. 
coli whole cells as expected while there was no cross-reactivity to 
non-Campylobacter spp. tested in this study.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2021.105818
PMID: 33418060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Feb;27(2):150-3.

[Study on the frequency of human papillomavirus type 6 and type 11 infection and 
L1 gene expression of the virus in biopsy samples of pointed condyloma 
patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun AH(1), Xu Y, Feng Y, Yan J.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310053, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the different rates of human papillomavirus types 6 
(HPV-6) and 11 (HPV-11) infection in biopsy samples from pointed condyloma 
patients, and to construct prokaryotic expression system of the major capsid 
protein L1 of the virus so as to establish an ELISA for detecting the expression 
of L1 gene in the biopsy samples.
METHODS: Using a double PCR based on the L1 gene of HPV-6 and HPV-11, the 
infection rates of HPV-6 and HPV-11 in the biopsy samples were determined. The 
whole length of HPV-6 L1 gene was amplified using PCR and the target 
amplification fragment was sequenced after T-A cloning. The prokaryotic 
expression system pET32a-L1-E. coli BL21 (DE3) was constructed and SDS-PAGE was 
used to measure the expression of the target recombinant protein rL1. Rabbit 
anti-rL1 serum was prepared and immuno-diffusion assay was applied to examine 
the antiserum titer. ELISA was established to detect the expression of L1 gene 
in the biopsy samples.
RESULTS: In the biopsy samples from 116 pointed condyloma patients, 92.2% 
(107/116) were detectable for HPV-6 and/or HPV-11. Of the 107 positive samples, 
70.1% (75/107) and 23.4% (25/107) were positive for HPV-6 or HPV-11 alone and 
6.5% (7/107) were coinfected with both HPV-6 and HPV-11 respectively. When 
compared with the reported corresponding sequences, the homology of nucleotide 
and sequence of the cloned HPV-6 L1 gene was from 99.20% - 99.93% while its 
putative amino acid sequence homology was from 99.80% - 100%, suggesting IPTG 
could induce the expression of rL1. The immuno-diffusion titer of the rabbit 
anti-rL1 serum was 1:4. 88.8% (103/116) of the biopsy samples were the major 
capsid protein L1 detectable.
CONCLUSION: A prokaryotic expression system of HPV-6 L1 gene, a double PCR assay 
for HPV-6 and HPV-11 genotyping, and an ELISA assay for detecting the major 
capsid protein L1 were successfully established in this study. The pointed 
condyloma patients in Zhejiang area mainly infected with HPV-6. The HPV in the 
focus frequently expressed major capsid protein L1.

PMID: 16749998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1260. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Nov;80(1):138-44. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.06.004. Epub 
2011 Jun 16.

Preventing protein aggregation by its hyper-acidic fusion cognates in 
Escherichia coli.

Zou Z(1), Fan Y, Zhang C.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Yunnan Normal University, YiErYi Street 298, 650092 
Kunming, China.

Preventing protein aggregation is crucial for various protein studies, and has a 
large potential for remedy of protein misfolding or aggregates-linked diseases. 
In this study, we demonstrated the hyper-acidic protein fusion partners, which 
were previously reported to enhance the soluble expression of aggregation-prone 
proteins, could also significantly prevent aggregation (or improve the 
solubility) of disease-associated and amyloid/fibril-forming polypeptides such 
as TEL-SAM and Aβ42 in Escherichia coli cells. Further and most importantly, the 
solubility of all poorly soluble target proteins examined was greatly elevated 
by their corresponding highly soluble hyper-acidic fusion cognates when they 
were co-expressed, in despite of a concomitant compromise of the cognates' 
solubility. The extent of such a solubility enhancement appeared to be in 
parallel with the ratio of the levels of co-expressed hyper-acidic fusion 
cognate and target protein. The hyper-acidic fusion cognates might function as 
intermolecular solubilizing effectors to prevent aggregation of the target 
proteins, and a plausible model for interpreting these results is also proposed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.06.004
PMID: 21704170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Nov;62(1):49-52. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.05.011. Epub 
2008 May 28.

Expression and purification of the recombinant membrane protein YidC: a case 
study for increased stability and solubility.

Martinez Molina D(1), Lundbäck AK, Niegowski D, Eshaghi S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biophysics, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

YidC is an inner membrane protein from Escherichia coli and is an essential 
component in insertion, translocation and assembly of membrane proteins in the 
membranes. Previous purification attempts resulted in heavy aggregates and 
precipitated protein at later stages of purification. Here we present a rapid 
and straightforward stability screening strategy based on gel filtration 
chromatography, which requires as little as 10 microg of protein and takes less 
than 15 min to perform. With this technique, we could rapidly screen several 
buffers in order to identify an optimum condition that stabilizes purified YidC. 
After optimization we could obtain several milligrams of purified YidC that 
could be easily prepared at high concentrations and that was stable for weeks at 
+4 degrees C. The isolated protein is thus well suited for structural studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.05.011
PMID: 18586516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. J Biotechnol. 2017 May 10;249:59-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.04.001. Epub 
2017 Apr 2.

Solubility and thermal response of fractionated cyanophycin prepared with 
recombinant Escherichia coli.

Tseng WC(1), Fang TY(2), Hsieh YC(3), Chen CY(3), Li MC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: tsengwc@mail.ntust.edu.tw.
(2)Department of Food Science, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung, 
Taiwan. Electronic address: tyfang@mail.ntou.edu.tw.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology, Taipei, Taiwan.

Cyanophycin, also known as cyanophycin granule polypeptide (CGP), is a 
non-ribosomal polypeptide consisting of aspartic acid as a backbone with 
arginine and lysine as the side chains. CGP has soluble (sCGP) and insoluble 
(iCGP) forms based on its aqueous solubility. In order to investigate the role 
of lysine in its physical properties, CGP was prepared with recombinant 
Escherichia coli cultivated at different temperatures, and the purified sCGP and 
iCGP were further fractionated with different ethanol concentrations and pHs, 
respectively. Low temperature cultivation was found to favor the production of 
more sCGP. The ratio of iCGP/sCGP increased from 0.12 to 0.35 when the 
cultivation temperature being raised from 17 to 37°C. After fractionation the 
same fraction of either sCGP or iCGP contained an approximate content of lysine, 
and therefore showed expectantly similar physical properties, irrespective of 
the cultivation temperatures. A high arginine/lysine ratio was found to result 
in low solubility and high molecular weight. Fractions of sCGP showed upper 
critical solution temperatures (UCST) below 5°C in phosphate buffered saline 
whereas iCGP exhibited a UCST around 28-31°C at pH 3. The particle size of iCGP 
was around 300-500nm as revealed by transmission electron microscopy. The 
thermal responses of CGP present a potential in biomedical applications, such as 
drug delivery.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.04.001
PMID: 28377282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Glycoconj J. 2005 Feb;22(1-2):1-11. doi: 10.1007/s10719-005-0845-9.

Purification and characterization of a soluble recombinant human ST6Gal I 
functionally expressed in Escherichia coli.

Hidari KI(1), Horie N, Murata T, Miyamoto D, Suzuki T, Usui T, Suzuki Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Core Research 
for Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST), Japan Science and Technology 
Corporation, University of Shizuoka. hidari@u-shizuoka-ken.ac.jp

A soluble and active form of recombinant human ST6Gal I was expressed in 
Escherichia coli. The gene encoding the soluble form of ST6Gal I lacking the 
membrane and cytosolic regions was introduced into a bacterial expression 
vector, pMAL-p2X, fused in frame with a maltose-binding protein (MBP) tag. 
Low-temperature cultivation at 13 degrees C during IPTG-induction significantly 
improved both solubility and MBP-tagging of the recombinant enzyme expressed in 
bacteria. The supernatant prepared by disruption of the cells demonstrated 
sialic acid transfer activity to both an oligosaccharide and a glycoprotein, 
asialofetuin, indicating that the enzyme expressed in bacteria is soluble and 
active. The MBP-tagged enzyme was efficiently purified by a combination of 
cation-exchange column and amylase-conjugated agarose column chromatography. The 
purified recombinant enzyme exerted enzymatic activity even in the absence of 
detergents in the reaction mixture. Acceptor substrate specificity of the enzyme 
was marginally different from that of rat liver ST6Gal I. These observations 
suggest that membrane and cytosolic regions of ST6Gal I may affect the 
properties of the enzyme. The purified recombinant enzyme was applied to convert 
desialylated fetuin to resialylated fetuin. Lectin blotting demonstrated that 
resialylated fetuin possesses a single Neu5Ac alpha 2-6 residue. The 
resialylated fetuin efficiently blocked hemagglutination induced by influenza 
virus strain A/Memphis/1/71 (H3N2), indicating that resialylated carbohydrate 
chains on the protein are so active as to competitively inhibit virus-receptor 
interaction. In conclusion, soluble recombinant ST6Gal I obtained using our 
bacterial expression system is a valuable tool to investigate the molecular 
mechanisms of biological and pathological interactions mediated via 
carbohydrates.

DOI: 10.1007/s10719-005-0845-9
PMID: 15864429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Nov;115:109-17. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.05.012. Epub 
2015 May 22.

Advancing Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a platform for expression of functional 
membrane proteins.

Erbakan M(1), Curtis BS(2), Nixon BT(3), Kumar M(4), Curtis WR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA 16802, United States. Electronic address: mxe198@psu.edu.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of California 
at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720-1462, United States. Electronic address: 
brandon.curtis@berkeley.edu.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, PA 16802, United States. Electronic address: 
btn1@psu.edu.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA 16802, United States. Electronic address: 
manish.kumar@psu.edu.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA 16802, United States; Department of Chemical Engineering, 
The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802, United States. 
Electronic address: wrc2@psu.edu.

Membrane protein overexpression is often hindered by toxic effects on the 
expression host, limiting achievable volumetric productivity. Moreover, protein 
structure and function may be impaired due to inclusion body formation and 
proteolytic degradation. To address these challenges, we employed the 
photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides for expression of challenging 
membrane proteins including human aquaporin 9 (hAQP9), human tight junction 
protein occludin (Occ), Escherichia coli toxin peptide GhoT, cellulose synthase 
enzyme complex (BcsAB) of R. sphaeroides and cytochrome-cy (Cyt-cy) from 
Rhodobacter capsulatus. Titers of 47 mg/L for Cyt-cy, 7.5 mg/L for Occ, 1.5 mg/L 
for BcsAB and 0.5 mg/L for hAQP9 were achieved from affinity purification. While 
purification of GhoT was not successful, transformants displayed a distinct 
growth phenotype that correlated with GhoT expression. We also evaluated the 
functionality of these proteins by performing water transport studies for hAQP9, 
peroxidase activity for cytochrome-cy, and in vitro cellulose synthesis activity 
assay for BcsAB. While previous studies with Rhodobacter have utilized 
oxygen-limited semi-aerobic growth for membrane protein expression, substantial 
titer improvements are achieved as a result of a 3-fold increase in biomass 
yield using the anaerobic photoheterotrophic growth regime, which utilizes the 
strong native puc promoter. This versatile platform is shown to enable recovery 
of a wide variety of difficult-to-express membrane proteins in functional form.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.05.012
PMID: 26008117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. Microb Cell Fact. 2011 Jun 27;10:50. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-50.

Enhanced growth and recombinant protein production of Escherichia coli by a 
perfluorinated oxygen carrier in miniaturized fed-batch cultures.

Pilarek M(1), Glazyrina J, Neubauer P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Bioprocess Engineering, Faculty of Chemical 
and Process Engineering, Warsaw University of Technology, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Liquid perfluorochemicals (PFCs) are interesting oxygen carriers in 
medicine and biotechnology with a high solubility for oxygen. They have been 
repeatedly used for improving oxygen transfer into prokaryotic and eukaryotic 
cell cultures, however their application is still limited. Here we show the 
great benefit of air/oxygen saturated perfluorodecalin (PFD) for high cell 
density cultivation of Escherichia coli in microwell plates and their positive 
effect on the soluble production of a correctly folded heterologously expressed 
alcohol dehydrogenase.
RESULTS: In EnBase(®) cultivations the best effect was seen with PFD saturated 
with oxygen enriched air (appr. 10 μM oxygen per ml) when PFD was added at the 
time of induction. In contrast the effect of PFD was negligible when it was 
added already at the time of inoculation. Optimisation of addition time and 
content of loaded oxygen into the PFD resulted in an increased the cell density 
by 40% compared to control cultures, and correspondingly also the product yield 
increased, demonstrated at the example of a recombinant alcohol dehydrogenase.
CONCLUSIONS: PFCs are a valuable additive in miniaturized cell culture formats. 
For production of recombinant proteins in low cell density shaken cultures the 
addition of oxygen-enriched PFD makes the process more robust, i.e. a high 
product yield is not any more limited to a very narrow cell density window 
during which the induction has to be done. The positive effect of PFD was even 
more obvious when it was added during high cell density cultures. The effect of 
the PFD phase depends on the amount of oxygen which is loaded into the PFD and 
which thus is a matter of optimisation.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-10-50
PMCID: PMC3141378
PMID: 21708024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. Mol Biol Rep. 2006 Sep;33(3):197-206. doi: 10.1007/s11033-006-0008-5.

cDNA clone, fusion expression and purification of the novel gene related to 
ascorbate peroxidase from Chinese wild Vitis pseudoreticulata in E. coli.

Lin L(1), Wang X, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Northwest Horticulture Plant Germplasm and Genetic 
Improvement of Ministry of Agriculture of People's Republic of China.

Powdery mildew, caused by Uncinula necator Burr, is one of the most seriously 
damaging diseases of grapevine all over the world. To gain the novel gene and 
investigate the resistance mechanism in Chinese Wild Vitis pseudoreticulata 
clone Baihe-35-1, mRNA differential display was employed to study the 
differential expression of the resistant gene to the disease of it when 
inoculated by Uncinula necator under natural field conditions, 5' RACE and 3' 
RACE have been used to clone the whole cDNA sequences of VpAPX, the novel gene 
related to Ascorbate Peroxidase which involved in resistant to the disease, is 
composed of specific sequence 1077 bp and has an open reading frame of 750 bp 
coding for 250 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 27.566 kDa. The 
VpAPX gene was obtained by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with the special 
primers synthesized according to the sequences of cDNA, and further cloned it 
into the pGEM-T easy vector. The cloned VpAPX gene was cut out again with two 
restriction enzymes and was inserted into the prokaryotic expression vector 
pGEX-4T-1, then transferred into E. coli BL21. As result, GST-VpAPX fusion 
protein was successfully expressed by induction of IPTG and purified by GST 
affinity resin. After injecting rabbit, the polyclonal antibodies were produced. 
Western blot analyses showed that the antibody reacted specifically to GST-VpAPX 
fusion protein and the titer for this antibody is 10(5). This research made the 
foundation to transform the VpAPX gene into grape plants for follow research in 
processing.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-006-0008-5
PMID: 16850189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. J Antibiot (Tokyo). 2001 Jan;54(1):66-73. doi: 10.7164/antibiotics.54.66.

Construction and physiological studies on a stable bioengineered strain of 
shengjimycin.

Guangdong S(1), Jianlu D, Yiguang W.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Tiantan, Beijing, PR China.

Shengjimycin is a group of 4"-acylated spiramycins with 4"-isovalerylspiramycin 
as the major component, produced by recombinant S. spiramyceticus F21 harboring 
a 4"-O-acyltransferase gene from S. mycarofaciens 1748. A stable bioengineered 
strain of Streptomyces spiramyceticus WSJ-1 was constructed by integrating the 
4"-O-acyltransferase gene (ist) by homologous recombination into the chromosome 
of the spiramycin-producing strain S. spiramyceticus F21. In this construction, 
a Streptomyces/E. coli shuttle plasmid pKC1139 (AmR) was used as the vector with 
the tsr gene used as selection marker for homologous recombination. The 
constructed strain, S. spiramyceticus WSJ-1,was genetically stable in production 
titer and proportion of components of shengjimycin as well as in maintaining the 
tsr selective marker when grown without selection. Southern hybridization 
confirmed the integrated status of the ist gene in the host genome. The 
production and the proportion of major component of 4"-isovalerylspiramycin of 
S. spiramyceticus WSJ-1 was also improved comparing with the strain harboring an 
autonomous plasmid -S. spiramyceticus F21/pIJ680(311) as shown by HPLC analysis. 
Physiological studies indicated that increase of the VDH ( valine dehydrogenase 
) and LDH ( leucine dehydrogenase ) activities of WSJ-1 may be involved in this 
improvement.

DOI: 10.7164/antibiotics.54.66
PMID: 11269716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2007 Aug;142(2):139-47. doi: 10.1007/s12010-007-0009-4.

Enhanced expression and primary purification of soluble HBD3 fusion protein in 
Escherichia coli.

Huang L(1), Xu Z, Zhong Z, Peng L, Chen H, Cen P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Department of Chemical and Biological 
Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310027, China.

Human beta-defensin-3(HBD3) is a low molecular weight cationic peptide with a 
broad antimicrobial spectrum. A recombinant Escherichia coli (pET32-smHBD3) was 
constructed to produce HBD3 fusion protein (TrxA-HBD3) before, but the 
productivity is relatively low. In the present work, the effects of different 
expression conditions were systematically investigated to improve the expression 
level of the fusion protein. With regard to the volumetric productivity, the 
optimal conditions were determined as follows: cultivation at 34 degrees C in 
MBL medium, induction at middle stage of the exponential growth phase with 0.4 
mM isopropylthio-D-galactoside, and postinduction expression for 8 h. Under 
these conditions, the volumetric productivity of the fusion protein reached 2.55 
g/L, i.e., 0.55 g mature HBD3/L, which was about 2.6 times of that obtained 
under the unoptimized conditions. And the target protein still maintained high 
solubility (> or =97.9%) and accounted for 66% of the total soluble protein. A 
cationic exchange purification step was employed to obtain high-purity target 
protein (90%) with a recovery ratio of 78%. This soluble expression level of 
HBD3 fusion protein was the highest among all the reported literature and 
facilitated the development of high efficient purification of HBD3.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-007-0009-4
PMID: 18025575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2020 Apr 25;36(4):693-699. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.190234.

[Cloning and expression of duck C4BPα and verification of its interaction with 
Riemerella anatipestifer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Li D(1), Tan L(1), Gu J(1), Wang S(1), Liu T(1), Chen S(1), Gao J(1), Tang F(1), 
Li J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science, Southwest University, Chongqing 402460, China.

To study the interaction between C4b-binding protein (C4BP) and Riemerella 
anatipestifer (RA), we cloned duck C4BPα, conducted prokaryotic expression and 
prepared the polyclonal antibody by immunizing mice. Then indirect 
immunofluorescence assay and dot blotting hybridization assay were used to 
verify the interaction between C4BP and RA. The full length of duck C4BPα 
nucleotide sequence was 1 230 bp, with the highest similarity to chicken C4BPα 
(82.1%). Phylogenetic tree analysis showed that duck C4BPα and chicken C4BPα 
were on the same phylogenetic tree branch and the genetic evolution relationship 
between them was the closest. C4BPα was efficiently expressed in Escherichia 
coli BL21 (DE3). The recombinant proteins existed in intracellular soluble form. 
The titer of polyclonal antibody was more than 1:10 000 and polyclonal 
antibodies could specifically recognize the recombinant proteins. The results of 
indirect immunofluorescence assay and dot blot hybridization assay showed that 
RA could interact with duck C4BP. The results provide a basis to further reveal 
the pathogenesis of RA.

Publisher: 为研究鸭 C4 结合蛋白 (C4b-binding protein，C4BP) 与鸭疫里默氏菌 (Riemerella 
anatipestifer，RA) 的相互作用，对鸭C4BPα 进行克隆、原核表达，免疫小鼠制备多克隆抗体，并利用间接免疫荧光试验及斑点杂交试验验证C4BP 
与RA 的相互作用。结果显示，鸭C4BPα 核苷酸序列全长为1 230 bp，与鸡C4BPα 的相似性最高 (82.1%)；系统进化树分析发现，鸭C4BPα 
与鸡C4BPα 处于同一系统进化树分支上，两者遗传进化关系最近；C4BPα 在大肠杆菌Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) 
中能高效表达，重组蛋白以胞内可溶性形式存在；多克隆抗体效价超过1∶10 000，并且可以与重组蛋白发生特异性反应；间接免疫荧光试验和斑点杂交试验结果显示RA 
与鸭C4BP 可以发生相互作用。研究结果为进一步揭示RA 的致病机制奠定了基础。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.190234
PMID: 32347063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2012 Nov;28(11):1306-16.

[Effects of SREBP-1 over-expression on fatty acid metabolism related genes 
expression in goats].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu H(1), Luo J, Li F, Yu K, Shi H, Li J, Lin X, Zhu J.

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Shaanxi Provincial Key Laboratory 
of Molecular Biology for Agriculture, Northwest A&F University, Yangling 712100, 
Shaanxi, China.

The aim of the study was to construct a recombinant adenovirus overexpression 
vector for Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Protein-1 (SREBP-1) of Xinong 
Saanen dairy goat, and to detect its effect on genes related to fatty acid 
metabolism in goat mammary epithelial cells, to establish foundation for further 
study of its roles in metabolism of fatty acid synthesis and lactation. First, 
we designed primers based on the SREBP-1 gene sequence in GenBank for PCR 
amplification and inserted the sequence into shuttle vector pAdTrack-CMV. The 
recombinant plasmid pAdTrack-CMV-SREBP-1 linearized by Pme I was transformed 
into E. coli BJ5183 competence cell containing the backbone vector pAdEasy-1 to 
obtain recombinant vector pAd-SREBP-1 by homologous recombination. pAd-SREBP-1 
was linearized by Pac I and transfected into HEK 293 cell. Then we infected goat 
mammary epithelial cells with recombinant adenovirus which was packaged in HEK 
293 cell line. The results showed that the recombinant adenovirus vector 
containing SREBP-1 was successfully constructed, and the titer of virus was 
10(9) U/mL. Compared with the control group, mRNA level of SREBP-1 increased by 
about 15 times after infected for 48 h and 30 times after infected for 72 h. 
Fatty acid synthase (FASN) and Acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) was upregulated by 
almost 2 times. The expression level of Peroxisome proliferator activated 
receptorgamma (PPARgamma) increased by 1.5 times. Liver X receptoralpha 
(LXRalpha) and Adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) upregulated by 1.2 times 
compared with that of control. But Stearoyl-coenzyme A desaturase (SCD) had no 
obvious change. In conclusion, SREBP-1 can activate the expression of genes 
related to fatty acid synthesis in mammary epithelial cells of Xinong Saanen 
dairy goat, demonstrated a regulatory function on the fatty acid metabolism in 
goat mammary gland.

PMID: 23457783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2009 Feb;25(2):257-62.

[Preparation of the monoclonal antibody against SOX4 protein and detection of 
SOX4 expression level in different tumor cell lines].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu M(1), Mu R, Lü M, Li A, Guo N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Immunology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 100850, China.

In the present study, we constructed a prokaryotic expression vector containing 
SOX4 protein encoding sequences. The GST-SOX4 soluble protein was expressed in 
Escherichia coli DH5alpha and purified by glutathione sepharose-4B. The purified 
recombinant protein was used to immunize Balb/C mice and the monoclonal antibody 
against SOX4 was prepared by using hybridoma technique. The titer of the 
antibody was determined as 1 x 10(5) by indirect ELISA. The specificity of the 
antibody was verified by Western blotting analysis. The monoclonal antibody 
specifically recognized the overexpressed exogenous SOX4 protein as well as 
endogenous SOX4 protein. The expression level of SOX4 protein in different cell 
lines and mouse tissues was detected by using the antibody. Differential 
expression of the protein was demonstrated by Western blotting. The data 
indicated that the antibody was specific. The antibody can be used as an 
important tool for further exploration of the role of SOX4 in tumorigenesis.

PMID: 19459332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. Mol Biol Rep. 2014 Mar;41(3):1837-48. doi: 10.1007/s11033-014-3033-9. Epub 2014 
Jan 17.

Characterization of immune response elicited by the recombinant outer membrane 
protein OmpF of Aeromonas hydrophila, a potential vaccine candidate in murine 
model.

Yadav SK(1), Sahoo PK, Dixit A.

Author information:
(1)Gene Regulation Laboratory, School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi, 110067, India.

Porins, the outer membrane proteins of gram negative bacteria, perform vital 
roles in bacterial survival and virulence, such as nutrient transportation 
across the membrane as well as adhesion to host cells during infection. The 
outer membrane proteins, OmpF and OmpC, are part of a two-component regulatory 
system, essential for the maintenance of solute concentrations in the 
cytoplasmic milieu of bacteria, and are thus considered vital for bacterial 
survival. Exposed on the surface of gram-negative bacteria, these channel 
proteins are highly immunogenic and can thus be exploited as vaccine candidates. 
In the present study, we have cloned, characterized, and expressed outer 
membrane protein OmpF of Aeromonas hydrophila, a major fish pathogen and also 
known to cause severe infections in humans. The cloned ompF gene of A. 
hydrophila consisting of an open reading frame corresponding to mature OmpF was 
expressed and purified from the heterologous host, E. coli. High level of 
expression resulted in recovery of ~120 mg/L of the purified rOmpF at shake 
flask level. Polyclonal antisera raised against the recombinant OmpF showed a 
very high endpoint titer (>1:80,000) and were able to specifically agglutinate 
live A. hydrophila. Further, anti-OmpF antisera cross-reacted with the cell 
lysates of various Aeromonas isolates, suggesting that anti-rOmpF antibodies can 
be used to identify different A. hydrophila isolates in infected conditions. 
Antibody isotyping, cytokine ELISA, and ELISPOT assay indicated predominantly 
Th1 type of immune response. The recombinant OmpF reported in the present study 
thus has the potential to be used as a vaccine candidate against A. hydrophila.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-014-3033-9
PMID: 24435974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. Poult Sci. 2008 May;87(5):912-7. doi: 10.3382/ps.2007-00481.

Additions of killed whole cell bacteria preparations to Freund complete adjuvant 
alter laying hen antibody response to soluble protein antigen.

Trott DL(1), Hellestad EM, Yang M, Cook ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Science, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 
53706, USA.

Passive transfer of antibodies from hen to egg has value to both the producer of 
commercial polyclonal egg antibody and the producer of hatching eggs. 
Water-in-oil emulsions are commonly amended with immune stimulants such as 
Mycobacteria (e.g., Freund complete adjuvant; FCA) to increase antibody 
production to soluble protein antigens (SPA). Recent discoveries of the 
mechanisms by which microbial products act as adjuvants led us to hypothesize 
that additions of killed whole cell bacteria (bacterins) to FCA could improve 
antibody responses to SPA. All injections used in each experiment were 
water-in-oil emulsions (50:50) containing 3 mg/mL of phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) 
immunogen. Additionally, all primary control and treatment injections contained 
heat-killed Mycobacterium butyricum immunogens from FCA. In addition to PLA(2) 
and FCA, primary treatment injections contained various microbial bacterin 
immunogens. Hence, the experimental treatment of all experiments was addition of 
a commercial source of microbial bacterin to FCA for the primary injection only. 
Booster injections were the same as the primary control injections except Freund 
incomplete adjuvant replaced FCA. Anti-body titers to PLA(2) in yolk were 
determined by ELISA. Bacterins tested as additives to FCA were Escherichia coli, 
Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus suis, and Corynebacterium 
pseudotuberculosis. Escherichia coli bacterin added to FCA decreased egg yolk 
antibody titer to SPA by 23% in hens of different ages and strains (P < 0.0001). 
In a second experiment, a 51% decrease in antibody production associated with E. 
coli bacterin was sustained for several weeks after the primary immunization (P 
= 0.003). Staphylococcus aureus or Streptococcus suis combined with FCA 
increased egg yolk antibody 62 and 51%, respectively (P < 0.05), and 
Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis had no effect. In conclusion, the addition of 
bacterin to FCA can influence hen antibody response to SPA as measured in egg 
yolks. It is hypothesized that the difference in antibody production may be 
related to the composition of various pathogen associated molecular patterns in 
the primary injection.

DOI: 10.3382/ps.2007-00481
PMID: 18420981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Anal Biochem. 2016 Jul 1;504:30-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2016.04.006. Epub 2016 Apr 
19.

A dual protease approach for expression and affinity purification of recombinant 
proteins.

Raran-Kurussi S(1), Waugh DS(2).

Author information:
(1)Protein Engineering Section, Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.
(2)Protein Engineering Section, Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21702, USA. 
Electronic address: waughd@mail.nih.gov.

We describe a new method for affinity purification of recombinant proteins using 
a dual protease protocol. Escherichia coli maltose binding protein (MBP) is 
employed as an N-terminal tag to increase the yield and solubility of its fusion 
partners. The MBP moiety is then removed by rhinovirus 3C protease, prior to 
purification, to yield an N-terminally His6-tagged protein. Proteins that are 
only temporarily rendered soluble by fusing them to MBP are readily identified 
at this stage because they will precipitate after the MBP tag is removed by 3C 
protease. The remaining soluble His6-tagged protein, if any, is subsequently 
purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC). Finally, the 
N-terminal His6 tag is removed by His6-tagged tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease 
to yield the native recombinant protein, and the His6-tagged contaminants are 
removed by adsorption during a second round of IMAC, leaving only the untagged 
recombinant protein in the column effluent. The generic strategy described here 
saves time and effort by removing insoluble aggregates at an early stage in the 
process while also reducing the tendency of MBP to "stick" to its fusion 
partners during affinity purification.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2016.04.006
PMCID: PMC4877217
PMID: 27105777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. J Biotechnol. 2013 Feb 10;163(3):339-45. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2012.11.005. 
Epub 2012 Nov 23.

Directed evolution of a 13-hydroperoxide lyase (CYP74B) for improved process 
performance.

Brühlmann F(1), Bosijokovic B, Ullmann C, Auffray P, Fourage L, Wahler D.

Author information:
(1)Firmenich SA, Corporate R&D, Route des Jeunes 1, CH-1211 Geneva 8, 
Switzerland. fredi.bruhlmann@firmenich.com

The performance of a 13-hydroperoxide lyase from guava, an enzyme of the CYP74 
family, which is of interest for the industrial production of saturated and 
unsaturated C6-aldehydes and their derivatives, was improved by directed 
evolution. Four rounds of gene shuffling and random mutagenesis improved the 
functional expression in E. coli by offering a 15-fold higher product yield 
factor. The increased product yield factor relates to an improved total turnover 
number of the variant enzyme, which also showed higher solubility and increased 
heme content. Thermal stability was also dramatically improved even though there 
was no direct selection pressure applied for evolving this trait. A structure 
based sequence alignment with the recently solved allene oxide synthase of 
Arabidopsis thaliana showed that most amino acid alterations occurred on the 
surface of the protein, distant of the active site and often outside of 
secondary structures. These results demonstrate the power of directed evolution 
for improving a complex trait such as the total turnover number of a cytochrome 
P450, a critical parameter for process performance that is difficult to predict 
even with good structural information at hand.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2012.11.005
PMID: 23183385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Sep;49(1):108-13. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.02.020. Epub 
2006 Mar 20.

Construction, purification, and immunogenicity of recombinant cystein-cystein 
type chemokine receptor 5 vaccine.

Wu K(1), Xue X, Wang Z, Yan Z, Shi J, Han W, Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Center of The Fourth Military Medical University, 17 Changle 
West Road, 710032 Xi'an, PR China.

Cystein-Cystein type chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) is a seven-transmembrane, 
G-protein coupled receptor. It is a major coreceptor with CD4 glycoprotein 
mediating cellular entry of CCR5 strains of HIV-1. A lack of cell-surface 
expression of CCR5 found in the homozygous Delta32 CCR5 mutation, upregulation 
of CC chemokines and antibodies to CCR5 are associated with resistance to HIV 
infection. In addition, CCR5 can be blocked by three CC chemokines and 
antibodies to three extracellular domains of CCR5. Consequently, CCR5 is 
considered an attractive therapeutic target against HIV infection. In the 
current study, we constructed a recombinant vaccine by coupling a T helper 
epitope AKFVAAWTLKAA (PADRE) to the N terminus of CCR5 extracellular domains 
(PADRE-CCR5) and expressed this protein in Escherichia coli. We have developed 
an inexpensive and scalable purification process for the fusion protein from 
inclusion bodies and the final yields of 6mg purified fusion protein per gram of 
cell paste was obtained. The immunogenicity of the recombinant vaccine generated 
was examined in BALB/c mice. Sera from the vaccinated mice demonstrated 
high-titer specific antibodies to the recombinant vaccine, suggesting that 
PADRE-rCCR5 may be used as a candidate of active CCR5 vaccine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.02.020
PMID: 16600624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1277. AMB Express. 2019 Oct 19;9(1):167. doi: 10.1186/s13568-019-0890-6.

Codon harmonization reduces amino acid misincorporation in bacterially expressed 
P. falciparum proteins and improves their immunogenicity.

Punde N(1)(2), Kooken J(1), Leary D(3), Legler PM(3), Angov E(4).

Author information:
(1)Malaria Biologics Branch, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver 
Spring, MD, 20910, USA.
(2)The Geneva Foundation, 917 Pacific Avenue, Tacoma, WA, 98402, USA.
(3)Naval Research Laboratories, 4555 Overlook Ave, Washington, DC, 20375, USA.
(4)Malaria Biologics Branch, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver 
Spring, MD, 20910, USA. evelina.angov.civ@mail.mil.

Codon usage frequency influences protein structure and function. The frequency 
with which codons are used potentially impacts primary, secondary and tertiary 
protein structure. Poor expression, loss of function, insolubility, or 
truncation can result from species-specific differences in codon usage. "Codon 
harmonization" more closely aligns native codon usage frequencies with those of 
the expression host particularly within putative inter-domain segments where 
slower rates of translation may play a role in protein folding. Heterologous 
expression of Plasmodium falciparum genes in Escherichia coli has been a 
challenge due to their AT-rich codon bias and the highly repetitive DNA 
sequences. Here, codon harmonization was applied to the malarial antigen, CelTOS 
(Cell-traversal protein for ookinetes and sporozoites). CelTOS is a highly 
conserved P. falciparum protein involved in cellular traversal through mosquito 
and vertebrate host cells. It reversibly refolds after thermal denaturation 
making it a desirable malarial vaccine candidate. Protein expressed in E. coli 
from a codon harmonized sequence of P. falciparum CelTOS (CH-PfCelTOS) was 
compared with protein expressed from the native codon sequence (N-PfCelTOS) to 
assess the impact of codon usage on protein expression levels, solubility, 
yield, stability, structural integrity, recognition with CelTOS-specific mAbs 
and immunogenicity in mice. While the translated proteins were expected to be 
identical, the translated products produced from the codon-harmonized sequence 
differed in helical content and showed a smaller distribution of polypeptides in 
mass spectra indicating lower heterogeneity of the codon harmonized version and 
fewer amino acid misincorporations. Substitutions of hydrophobic-to-hydrophobic 
amino acid were observed more commonly than any other. CH-PfCelTOS induced 
significantly higher antibody levels compared with N-PfCelTOS; however, no 
significant differences in either IFN-γ or IL-4 cellular responses were detected 
between the two antigens.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-019-0890-6
PMCID: PMC6800875
PMID: 31630257

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no competing interests except 
for Dr. Evelina Angov who declares a competing interest; she holds an issued US 
patent on the recombinant PfCelTOS and its use.


1278. Plant Sci. 2006 Oct;171(4):497-504. doi: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2006.05.011. Epub 
2006 Jun 12.

β-Xylosidase in strawberry fruit: Isolation of a full-length gene and analysis 
of its expression and enzymatic activity in cultivars with contrasting firmness.

Bustamante CA(1), Rosli HG(1), Añón MC(2), Civello PM(1), Martínez GA(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biotecnológicas-Instituto Tecnológico de 
Chascomús (IIB-INTECH), CONICET-UNSAM, Camino de Circunvalación Laguna Km 6, 
B7130IWA Chascomús, Argentina.
(2)Centro de Investigación y Desarrollo en Criotecnología de Alimentos (CIDCA), 
UNLP-CONICET 47 y 116, 1900 La Plata, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Biotecnológicas-Instituto Tecnológico de 
Chascomús (IIB-INTECH), CONICET-UNSAM, Camino de Circunvalación Laguna Km 6, 
B7130IWA Chascomús, Argentina. Electronic address: gmartinez@intech.gov.ar.

Strawberry is a non-climateric fleshy fruit, which softens quickly and has short 
post-harvest life. Ripening is associated with an increment of pectin solubility 
and a reduction of the content of hemicelluloses. In this work, we have cloned 
the full-length cDNA encoding a β-xylosidase (FaXyl1) from Fragaria×ananassa and 
we have characterized its expression in two strawberry cultivars with 
contrasting fruit firmness. The analysis of the predicted protein showed that 
FaXyl1 is closely related to other β-xylosidases from higher plants. The 
recombinant protein obtained by over-expressing FaXyl1 in Escherichia coli had 
β-xylosidase activity against the artificial substrate p-nitrophenyl 
β-d-xilopyranoside. Differently from other bifunctional xylosidases, no 
α-l-arabinofuranosidase activity was detected in the recombinant enzyme. The 
expression of FaXyl1 gene was analyzed by northern-blot in Camarosa and Toyonaka 
strawberry cultivars, and compared with the corresponding protein data obtained 
by Western-blot and with the β-xylosidase activity during ripening. The softest 
cultivar (Toyonaka) showed an early accumulation of FaXyl1 transcript and a 
higher expression of the corresponding protein during ripening, which correlates 
with a higher β-xylosidase activity in all ripening stages analyzed.

Copyright © 2006 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2006.05.011
PMID: 25193647


1279. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2008 Jul 11;371(4):855-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.04.157. Epub 2008 May 6.

Expression of microsomal lanosterol 14alpha-demethylase (CYP51) in an engineered 
soluble monomeric form.

Seliskar M(1), Kosir R, Rozman D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Functional Genomics and Bio-Chips, Institute of Biochemistry, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Zaloska 4, SI-1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.

We prepared a soluble monomeric form of bovine cytochrome P450 lanosterol 
14alpha-demethylase (CYP51), which in mammals is a ubiquitously expressed 
membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum. We constructed two variants of 
bovine CYP51 (bCYP51) with different truncations and modifications in their 
N-terminal membrane-spanning domains. Both of these were expressed in 
Escherichia coli at levels of 500nmol/l. The protein variants were purified and 
tested for the solubility in the absence of detergent. Variant bCYP51-d1 
exhibited approximately 10-fold better solubility over variant bCYT51-d2. The 
bCYP51-d1 eluted as a single peak in size-exclusion chromatography, 
corresponding to its monomeric form. The activity of bCYP51-d1 is similar to 
that of recombinant human CYP51 with a non-truncated membrane-spanning region. 
High solubility and low tendency to non-specific oligomer formation make 
bCYP51-d1 a promising candidate for successful crystallization, which may 
finally allow the structural determination of this important mammalian enzyme.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.04.157
PMID: 18466759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2010 Aug;17(8):1183-7. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00101-10. Epub 
2010 Jun 16.

Blocking effect of a monoclonal antibody against recombinant Pvs25 on sporozoite 
development in Anopheles sinensis.

Moon SU(1), Kim HH, Kim TS, Choi KM, Oh CM, Ahn YJ, Hwang SK, Sohn Y, Shin EH, 
Kim H, Lee HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Florida, 1600 SW Archer Road, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.

To develop a vaccine to block the transmission of vivax malaria, the gene 
encoding the ookinete surface protein Pvs25 was cloned from a Korean malaria 
patient. The Pvs25 gene was 660 bp long, encoding 219 amino acids. It was 
subcloned into the expression vector pQE30 and expressed in Escherichia coli. 
The expressed recombinant protein, named rPvs25, showed a molecular mass of 
approximately 25 kDa by SDS-PAGE analysis. An anti-rPvs25 monoclonal antibody 
produced in BALB/c mice was able to inhibit sporozoite development in the 
mosquito Anopheles sinensis, which is known as the malaria transmission vector 
in the Republic of Korea. In addition, rPvs25 produced a relatively high 
antibody titer in BALB/c mice that lasted for more than 6 months. Based on these 
results, we suggest that recombinant Pvs25 could be a useful antigen in the 
development of a vaccine to prevent local malaria transmission in the Republic 
of Korea.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00101-10
PMCID: PMC2916255
PMID: 20554802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. Acta Biochim Pol. 2005;52(1):261-6.

Genetic immunization of ducks for production of antibodies specific to 
Helicobacter pylori UreB in egg yolks.

Kazimierczuk K(1), Cova L, Ndeboko B, Szczyrk U, Targosz A, Brzozowski T, Sirko 
A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish Academy of Sciences, 
Warszawa, Poland.

Following genetic immunization of laying ducks with a plasmid expressing 
Helicobacter pylori UreB (large subunit of urease), IgY against UreB were 
obtained from egg yolks. These polyclonal and monospecific IgY antibodies are of 
higher-titer and specifically recognize recombinant H. pylori urease purified 
from Escherichia coli. To our knowledge this is the first report describing 
generation of IgY antibodies directed against antigens of H. pylori by DNA-based 
immunization.

PMID: 15827623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. ACS Synth Biol. 2021 Oct 15;10(10):2661-2671. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00294. 
Epub 2021 Oct 5.

Engineering a CRISPRi Circuit for Autonomous Control of Metabolic Flux in 
Escherichia coli.

Gao C(1)(2), Guo L(1)(2), Hu G(3), Liu J(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Xia X(4), Liu 
L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 
214122, China.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Science, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai 200240, China.

Building autonomous switches is an effective approach for rewiring metabolic 
flux during microbial synthesis of chemicals. However, current autonomous 
switches largely rely on metabolite-responsive biosensors or quorum-sensing 
circuits. In this study, a stationary phase promoter (SPP) and a protein 
degradation tag (PDT) were combined with the CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) 
system to construct an autonomous repression system that could shut down 
multiple-gene expression depending on the cellular physiological state. With 
this autonomous CRISPRi system to regulate one target gene, a fermenter-scale 
titer of shikimic acid reached 21 g/L, which was the highest titer ever reported 
by Escherichia coli in a minimal medium without any chemical inducers. With 
three target genes repressed, 26 g/L glutaric acid could be achieved with 
decreased byproduct accumulation. These results highlight the applicability of 
the autonomous CRISPRi system for microbial production of value-added chemicals.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00294
PMID: 34609846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2009 May 14;7:46. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-7-46.

Characterization of antibodies for quantitative determination of spiggin protein 
levels in male and female three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).

Berg H(1), Scherbak N, Liimatta H, Hoffmann E, Karlsson J, Olsson PE.

Author information:
(1)Orebro Life Science Center, School of Science and Technology, Orebro 
University, SE-70182 Orebro, Sweden.

Spiggin is an adhesive glycoprotein produced in the kidney of sticklebacks 
during the breeding season and is subsequently secreted into the urinary bladder 
from where it is employed for nest building. Since the production of the protein 
has been shown to be under androgenic control, spiggin has been suggested to be 
a useful biomarker for androgenic substances in the environment. In this study, 
two polyclonal spiggin antibodies based on synthetic peptides and one polyclonal 
antibody directed against native spiggin have been characterized. The antibodies 
ability to identify spiggin was investigated by quantitative immunoassay. For 
both peptide antibodies the quantification range was determined to be between 1 
and 80 ng spiggin and determination of renal spiggin levels from immature and 
mature males displayed a 15-fold increase in total spiggin content of the kidney 
resulting in a 6-fold increase in male kidney weight due to hypertrophy. The 
kidney somatic index (KSI) was found to correlate well with the total renal 
spiggin content and therefore it appears that KSI in sticklebacks could be used 
as an initial method to identify substances displaying androgenic effects. 
Furthermore, western blot analysis revealed that the polyclonal antibodies 
recognize different spiggin isoforms and that spiggin can be detected in the 
urinary bladder and kidney of both males and female sticklebacks. In order to 
develop a quantitative detection method for native spiggin it is necessary to 
produce a standard that can be used in a bioassay. Due to the adhesive and 
polymerization characteristics of spiggin the protein is difficult to use as a 
standard in bioassays. So far spiggin has been shown to exist in at least 14 
isoforms, all of which contain polymerization domains. To overcome the 
solubility problem we have produced recombinant spiggin gamma, with only one 
polymerization domain, that can be expressed in E. coli. Western blot analysis 
demonstrated that the polyclonal antibodies were able to detect recombinant 
spiggin gamma protein in bacterial cell lysate, suggesting that it may be 
developed into a useful source of standard spiggin to be used for quantitative 
determination of androgen induced spiggin production in sticklebacks.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-7-46
PMCID: PMC2686706
PMID: 19442269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Nov;81(22):7753-66. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02242-15. Epub 
2015 Aug 28.

YjeH Is a Novel Exporter of l-Methionine and Branched-Chain Amino Acids in 
Escherichia coli.

Liu Q(1), Liang Y(2), Zhang Y(2), Shang X(2), Liu S(2), Wen J(3), Wen T(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui, China CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic 
Engineering, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui, China CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic 
Engineering, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China wenty@im.ac.cn.

Amino acid efflux transport systems have important physiological functions and 
play vital roles in the fermentative production of amino acids. However, no 
methionine exporter has yet been identified in Escherichia coli. In this study, 
we identified a novel amino acid exporter, YjeH, in E. coli. The yjeH 
overexpression strain exhibited high tolerance to the structural analogues of 
l-methionine and branched-chain amino acids, decreased intracellular amino acid 
levels, and enhanced export rates in the presence of a Met-Met, Leu-Leu, 
Ile-Ile, or Val-Val dipeptide, suggesting that YjeH functions as an exporter of 
l-methionine and the three branched-chain amino acids. The export of the four 
amino acids in the yjeH overexpression strain was competitively inhibited in 
relation to each other. The expression of yjeH was strongly induced by 
increasing cytoplasmic concentrations of substrate amino acids. Green 
fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged YjeH was visualized by total internal 
reflection fluorescence microscopy to confirm the plasma membrane localization 
of YjeH. Phylogenetic analysis of transporters indicated that YjeH belongs to 
the amino acid efflux family of the amino acid/polyamine/organocation (APC) 
superfamily. Structural modeling revealed that YjeH has the typical "5 + 5" 
transmembrane α-helical segment (TMS) inverted-repeat fold of APC superfamily 
transporters, and its binding sites are strictly conserved. The enhanced 
capacity of l-methionine export by the overexpression of yjeH in an 
l-methionine-producing strain resulted in a 70% improvement in titer. This study 
supplements the transporter classification and provides a substantial basis for 
the application of the methionine exporter in metabolic engineering.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02242-15
PMCID: PMC4616930
PMID: 26319875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. Toxins (Basel). 2017 Feb 27;9(3):82. doi: 10.3390/toxins9030082.

Toxin Fused with SUMO Tag: A New Expression Vector Strategy to Obtain 
Recombinant Venom Toxins with Easy Tag Removal inside the Bacteria.

Shimokawa-Falcão LH(1), Caporrino MC(2), Barbaro KC(3), Della-Casa MS(4), 
Magalhães GS(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Butantan Institute, Av. Vital Brazil 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. lhiri.hanna@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Butantan Institute, Av. Vital Brazil 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. maria.caporrino@butantan.gov.br.
(3)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Butantan Institute, Av. Vital Brazil 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. katia.barbaro@butantan.gov.br.
(4)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Butantan Institute, Av. Vital Brazil 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. maisa.casa@butantan.gov.br.
(5)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Butantan Institute, Av. Vital Brazil 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. geraldo.magalhaes@butantan.gov.br.

Many animal toxins may target the same molecules that need to be controlled in 
certain pathologies; therefore, some toxins have led to the formulation of drugs 
that are presently used, and many other drugs are still under development. 
Nevertheless, collecting sufficient toxins from the original source might be a 
limiting factor in studying their biological activities. Thus, molecular biology 
techniques have been applied in order to obtain large amounts of recombinant 
toxins into Escherichia coli. However, most animal toxins are difficult to 
express in this system, which results in insoluble, misfolded, or unstable 
proteins. To solve these issues, toxins have been fused with tags that may 
improve protein expression, solubility, and stability. Among these tags, the 
SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier) has been shown to be very efficient and 
can be removed by the Ulp1 protease. However, removing SUMO is a labor- and 
time-consuming process. To enhance this system, here we show the construction of 
a bicistronic vector that allows the expression of any protein fused to both the 
SUMO and Ulp1 protease. In this way, after expression, Ulp1 is able to cleave 
SUMO and leave the protein interest-free and ready for purification. This 
strategy was validated through the expression of a new phospholipase D from the 
spider Loxosceles gaucho and a disintegrin from the Bothrops insularis snake. 
Both recombinant toxins showed good yield and preserved biological activities, 
indicating that the bicistronic vector may be a viable method to produce 
proteins that are difficult to express.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins9030082
PMCID: PMC5371837
PMID: 28264436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


1286. Curr Microbiol. 2008 Dec;57(6):626-30. doi: 10.1007/s00284-008-9254-1. Epub 2008 
Sep 10.

High-level expression in Escherichia coli, purification and mosquito-larvicidal 
activity of the binary toxin from Bacillus sphaericus.

Promdonkoy B(1), Promdonkoy P, Panyim S.

Author information:
(1)National Science and Technology Development Agency, National Center for 
Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, 113 Phaholyothin Road, Klong 1, Klong 
Luang, Pathumthani 12120, Thailand. boonhiang@biotec.or.th

The mosquito-larvicidal binary toxin produced by Bacillus sphaericus consists of 
two polypeptides: BinA and BinB. Both proteins function together, and maximum 
toxicity is obtained when both are present in equimolar ratio. Cloning and 
expression of each component separately in heterologous hosts led to low 
toxicity of the crystal proteins. To improve the expression level, the 
purification process, and the activity of the binary toxin, the binA and binB 
genes were separately cloned in Escherichia coli. Each gene was fused in frame 
to the glutathione S-transferase (GST) gene to be expressed as GST-fusion 
protein (GST-BinA and GST-BinB). A high expression level was observed from both 
constructs, and the fusion proteins exhibited high toxicity to Culex 
quinquefasciatus larvae. High-purity toxin could be obtained by affinity 
chromatography. The result suggests that GST moiety facilitates high protein 
production and enables better solubility of the toxin inclusions inside the 
larval gut, leading to higher toxicity of the fusion protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-008-9254-1
PMID: 18781355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Bioinformatics. 2017 Oct 1;33(19):3098-3100. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btx345.

Protein-Sol: a web tool for predicting protein solubility from sequence.

Hebditch M(1), Carballo-Amador MA(2), Charonis S(1), Curtis R(1), Warwicker 
J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical Science, Manchester Institute 
of Biotechnology, University of Manchester, Manchester M1 7DN, UK.
(2)School of Chemistry, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, University of 
Manchester, Manchester M1 7DN, UK.

MOTIVATION: Protein solubility is an important property in industrial and 
therapeutic applications. Prediction is a challenge, despite a growing 
understanding of the relevant physicochemical properties.
RESULTS: Protein-Sol is a web server for predicting protein solubility. Using 
available data for Escherichia coli protein solubility in a cell-free expression 
system, 35 sequence-based properties are calculated. Feature weights are 
determined from separation of low and high solubility subsets. The model returns 
a predicted solubility and an indication of the features which deviate most from 
average values. Two other properties are profiled in windowed calculation along 
the sequence: fold propensity, and net segment charge. The utility of these 
additional features is demonstrated with the example of thioredoxin.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The Protein-Sol webserver is available at 
http://protein-sol.manchester.ac.uk.
CONTACT: jim.warwicker@manchester.ac.uk.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btx345
PMCID: PMC5870856
PMID: 28575391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. ACS Synth Biol. 2018 Sep 21;7(9):2205-2215. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00215. Epub 
2018 Aug 21.

Highly Active C(8)-Acyl-ACP Thioesterase Variant Isolated by a Synthetic 
Selection Strategy.

Hernández Lozada NJ(1), Lai RY(1), Simmons TR(1), Thomas KA(1), Chowdhury R(2), 
Maranas CD(2), Pfleger BF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering , University of 
Wisconsin-Madison , 1415 Engineering Drive , Madison , Wisconsin 53706 , United 
States.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering , Pennsylvania State University , 158 
Fenske Laboratory , University Park , Pennsylvania 16802 , United States.

Microbial metabolism is an attractive route for producing medium chain length 
fatty acids, e.g., octanoic acid, used in the oleochemical industry. One 
challenge to this strategy is the lack of enzymes that are both highly active in 
a microbial host and selective toward substrates with desired chain length. Of 
the many steps in fatty acid biosynthesis, the thioesterase is the most widely 
used enzyme for controlling chain length. Thioesterases hydrolyze the thioester 
bond between fatty acids and the acyl-carrier protein (ACP) or coenzyme A (CoA) 
cofactor. The functional role of thioesterases varies between organisms ( i.e., 
bacteria vs plant) and therefore so do the substrate specificities. As a result, 
microbial biocatalysts that utilize a heterologous thioesterase either produce 
high titers of fatty acids with mixed chain lengths or low titers of products 
with a narrow chain length distribution. To search for highly active enzymes 
that selectively hydrolyze octanoyl-ACP, we developed a genetic selection based 
on the lipoic acid requirement of Escherichia coli. We used the selection to 
identify variants in a randomly mutagenized library of the C8-specific Cuphea 
palustris FatB1 thioesterase. After optimizing expression of the thioesterase, 
E. coli cultures produced 1.7 g/L of octanoic acid with >90% specificity from a 
single chromosomal copy of this thioesterase. In vitro studies confirmed the 
mutant thioesterase possessed a 15-fold increase in kcat compared to its native 
sequence. The high level of specific activity allowed for low levels of 
expression while maintaining fatty acid titer. The low expression requirement 
will allow metabolic engineers to use more cellular resources to address other 
limitations in the pathway and maximize overall productivity.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00215
PMCID: PMC6553638
PMID: 30064208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Note: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


1289. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 Mar;155:43-47. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.11.001. Epub 
2018 Nov 8.

An efficient constitutive expression system for Anti-CEACAM5 nanobody production 
in the yeast Pichia pastoris.

Chen Q(1), Zhou Y(2), Yu J(2), Liu W(1), Li F(2), Xian M(1), Nian R(3), Song 
H(4), Feng D(5).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, No. 189 Songling Road, 
Qingdao, 266101, China.
(2)Shenzhen Innova Nanobodi Co., Ltd., No. 7018 Caitian Road, Shenzhen, 518000, 
China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, No. 189 Songling Road, 
Qingdao, 266101, China. Electronic address: nianrui@qibebt.ac.cn.
(4)Shenzhen Innova Nanobodi Co., Ltd., No. 7018 Caitian Road, Shenzhen, 518000, 
China. Electronic address: patrick.song@nanobodi.com.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Binzhou Medical University, No. 346 
Guanhai Road, Yantai, 264003, China. Electronic address: fengdx@hotmail.com.

Nanobodies offer multiple advantages over conventional antibodies in terms of 
size, stability, solubility, immunogenicity, and production costs, with improved 
tumor uptake and blood clearance. Additionally, the recombinant expression of 
nanobodies is robust in various expression systems, such as Escherichia coli, 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia pastoris. P. pastoris is the most widely 
used microorganism for nanobody production, but all or almost all expression 
vectors developed for this system are based on the regulated promoter of the 
alcohol oxidase 1 gene (AOX1) that requires methanol for full induction. In this 
study, a constitutive anti-CEACAM5 nanobody expression system was constructed 
under the control of a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase promoter (GAP) 
promoter. The effects of different carbon sources and pH on nanobody expression 
were evaluated in shaking flask cultures. After 96 h of constitutive expression 
in shaking flask, a yield of 51.71 mg/L was obtained. In addition, this 
constitutive expression system produced nanobodies at equivalent yield and 
affinity to that produced by methanol-induced expression. The results of this 
study indicated that the use of a constitutive expression system is a promising 
alternative for the production of nanobodies applied for cancer diagnosis and 
therapy.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.11.001
PMID: 30414968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Methods Mol Biol. 2006;320:39-59.

Expression of recombinant flavin-containing monooxygenases in a 
baculovirus/insect cell system.

Janmohamed A(1), Thaunsukon P, Shephard EA, Phillips lR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University College London, 
UK.

The baculovirus/insect cell heterologous expression system provides an important 
tool for investigating the catalytic activity of individual drug-metabolizing 
enzymes toward a particular substrate. In this chapter we describe a 
baculovirus/insect cell system that we have used for the expression of human and 
mouse flavin-containing monooxygenases. Methods are described for the generation 
of recombinant baculoviral DNAs, via both site-specific transposition in 
Escherichia coli and site-specific recombination in vitro; adaptation of 
Spodopterafrugiperda (Sf) 9 cells to shaking culture and to serum-free medium; 
cryopreservation and transfection of Sf9 cells; amplification of baculovirus and 
determination of viral titer; analysis of baculoviral DNA; and expression and 
analysis of recombinant proteins.

PMID: 16719373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Biotechnol Prog. 2013 Nov-Dec;29(6):1587-93. doi: 10.1002/btpr.1810. Epub 2013 
Oct 9.

Antioxidant efficacy and adhesion rescue by a recombinant mussel foot protein-6.

Nicklisch SC(1), Das S, Martinez Rodriguez NR, Waite JH, Israelachvili JN.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of 
California, Santa Barbara, CA, 93106.

Mytilus foot protein type 6 (mfp-6) is crucial for maintaining the reducing 
conditions needed for optimal wet adhesion in marine mussels. In this report, we 
describe the expression and production of a recombinant Mytilus californianus 
foot protein type 6 variant 1 (rmfp-6.1) fused with a hexahistidine affinity tag 
in Escherichia coli and its purification by affinity chromatography. Recombinant 
mfp-6 showed high purification yields of 5-6 mg L(-1) cell culture and excellent 
solubility in low pH buffers that retard oxidation of its many thiol groups. 
Purified rmfp-6.1 protein showed high 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical 
scavenging activity when compared with vitamin C. Using the highly sensitive 
surface forces apparatus (SFA) technique to measure interfacial surface forces 
in the nano-Newton range, we show that rmfp-6.1 is also able to rescue the 
oxidation-dependent adhesion loss of mussel foot protein 3 (mfp-3) at pH 3. The 
adhesion rescue is related to a reduction of dopaquinone back to 
3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-l-alanine in mfp-3, which is the reverse reaction observed 
during the detrimental enzymatic browning process in fruits and vegetables. 
Broadly viewed, rmfp-6.1 has potential as a versatile antioxidant for 
applications ranging from personal products to antispoilants for perishable 
foods during processing and storage. © 2013 American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers Biotechnol. Prog., 29:1587-1593, 2013.

© 2013 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.1810
PMCID: PMC3864665
PMID: 24106182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Life (Basel). 2021 May 21;11(6):460. doi: 10.3390/life11060460.

Strategies for the Production of Soluble Interferon-Alpha Consensus and 
Potential Application in Arboviruses and SARS-CoV-2.

Grabarz F(1)(2), Lopes APY(1), Barbosa FF(2)(3), Barazzone GC(1), Santos JC(1), 
Botosso VF(4), Jorge SAC(5), Nascimento ALTO(1), Astray RM(3), Gonçalves VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Desenvolvimento de Vacinas, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo 
05503-900, Brazil.
(2)Programa Interunidades em Biotecnologia, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo 
05508-060, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório Multipropósito Viral, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo 05503-900, 
Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Virologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo 05503-900, Brazil.
(5)Laboratório de Biotecnologia Viral, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo 05503-900, 
Brazil.

Biopharmaceutical production is currently a multibillion-dollar industry with 
high growth perspectives. The research and development of biologically sourced 
pharmaceuticals are extremely important and a reality in our current healthcare 
system. Interferon alpha consensus (cIFN) is a non-natural synthetic antiviral 
molecule that comprises all the most prevalent amino acids of IFN-α into one 
consensus protein sequence. For clinical use, cIFN is produced in E. coli in the 
form of inclusion bodies. Here, we describe the use of two solubility tags (Fh8 
and DsbC) to improve soluble cIFN production. Furthermore, we analyzed cIFN 
production in different culture media and temperatures in order to improve 
biopharmaceutical production. Our results demonstrate that Fh8-cIFN yield was 
improved when bacteria were cultivated in autoinduction culture medium at 30 °C. 
After hydrolysis, the recovery of soluble untagged cIFN was 58% from purified 
Fh8-cIFN molecule, fourfold higher when compared to cIFN recovered from the 
DsbC-cIFN, which achieved 14% recovery. The biological activity of cIFN was 
tested on in vitro model of antiviral effect against Zika, Mayaro, Chikungunya 
and SARS-CoV-2 virus infection in susceptible VERO cells. We show, for the first 
time, that cIFN has a potent activity against these viruses, being very low 
amounts of the molecule sufficient to inhibit virus multiplication. Thus, this 
molecule could be used in a clinical approach to treat Arboviruses and 
SARS-CoV-2.

DOI: 10.3390/life11060460
PMCID: PMC8223780
PMID: 34063766

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


1293. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2014 Dec;111(12):2580-6. doi: 10.1002/bit.25293. Epub 2014 
Jul 4.

Direct biosynthesis of adipic acid from a synthetic pathway in recombinant 
Escherichia coli.

Yu JL(1), Xia XX, Zhong JJ, Qian ZG.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, School of Biotechnology, East 
China University of Science and Technology, 130 Meilong Road, Shanghai, 200237, 
China.

The C6 dicarboxylic acid, adipic acid, is an important platform chemical in 
industry. Biobased production of adipic acid is a promising alternative to the 
current petrochemical route. Here, we report biosynthesis of adipic acid using 
an artificial pathway inspired by the reversal of beta-oxidation of dicarboxylic 
acids. The biosynthetic pathway comprises condensation of acetyl-CoA and 
succinyl-CoA to form the C6 backbone and subsequent reduction, dehydration, 
hydrogenation, and release of adipic acid from its thioester. The pathway was 
first tested in vitro with reconstituted pathway enzymes and then functionally 
introduced into Escherichia coli for the biosynthesis and excretion of adipic 
acid into the culture medium. The production titer was increased by 
approximately 20-fold through the combination of recruiting enzymes that were 
more suitable to catalyze the synthetic reactions and increasing availability of 
the condensation substrates. This work demonstrates direct biosynthesis of 
adipic acid via non-natural synthetic pathway, which may enable its renewable 
production.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25293
PMID: 24895214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2002 Mar;16(1):40-3.

[Detection of the expression of alpha3-integrin on hantavirus permissive cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Dong J(1), Jiang Y, Wang J, Xie Y, Hang C, Hong T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Virology, Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, Beijing 
100052, China.

BACKGROUND: To express and purify human alpha3-integrin to serve as the antigen 
to prepare its antibody and to separate the Vero cell clones without expression 
of alpha3-integrin.
METHODS: The human alpha3-integrin gene was amplified by using RT-PCR, then 
subcloned into a pQE30 expression vector and expressed in E. coli. The gene 
expression was confirmed by Western blot assay. Rabbit was inoculated with 
purified antigen to stimulate the antibody generation. The target Vero cells 
were separated by negative selection using antibody plus complement mediated 
cytolysis. The separated cell clones were confirmed by immunofluorescence and 
Western blot assay.
RESULTS: The alpha3- integrin gene was cloned and expressed effetively, Western 
blot assay revealed that the expressed protein held good immune reactivity. High 
titer antibody was generated. However the expression of alpha3-integrin was not 
detected on Vero, VeroE6, Hep-2, 2BS and 293 cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study suggested that hantavirus has other 
receptors on Vero cells beside alpha 3-integrin.

PMID: 11986744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2015 Aug;362(15):fnv115. doi: 10.1093/femsle/fnv115. Epub 
2015 Jul 17.

Control of ATP concentration in Escherichia coli using synthetic small 
regulatory RNAs for enhanced S-adenosylmethionine production.

Chen Y(1), Lou S(2), Fan L(2), Zhang X(2), Tan T(3).

Author information:
(1)National Energy R&D Center for Biorefinery, College of Life Science and 
Technology, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, People's 
Republic of China College of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Luoyang 471003, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)National Energy R&D Center for Biorefinery, College of Life Science and 
Technology, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)National Energy R&D Center for Biorefinery, College of Life Science and 
Technology, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, People's 
Republic of China twtan@mail.buct.edu.cn.

ATP is the limiting precursor and driving force for S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) 
biosynthesis in Escherichia coli. In contrast to traditional optimization of 
fermentation processes, the synthetic sRNA-based repression strategy, which was 
developed as a highly efficient gene knockdown approach, has been applied for 
the regulation of the intracellular ATP concentration in order to enhance SAM 
production. In this work, proB, glnA and argB, all involved in the synthesis of 
ATP-dependent by-products in the S-adenosylmethionine production were selected 
as candidates for repression. The results show that the S-adenosylmethionine 
titer and yield in the recombinant strain were doubled compared with the 
control. The best-performing strain, Anti-argB, produced the highest SAM titer 
(1.21 mg L(-1)), and strain Anti-glnA gave the highest yield (0.13 mg g(-1), 12 
h). Both the concentration of ATP and the ratio of ATP to ADP were shown to have 
a positive effect on the S-adenosylmethionine synthesis. Overall, the synthetic 
sRNA-based downregulation strategy has a high potential for cofactor regulation 
and will be useful for industrial ATP-driven bioprocesses.

© FEMS 2015. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnv115
PMID: 26187745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Jul;42(7):1039-47. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-015-1624-7. Epub 2015 May 8.

Enhanced production of L-sorbose in an industrial Gluconobacter oxydans strain 
by identification of a strong promoter based on proteomics analysis.

Hu Y(1), Wan H, Li J, Zhou J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, 
China.

Gluconobacter oxydans is capable of rapidly incomplete oxidation of many sugars 
and alcohols, which means the strain has great potential for industrial 
purposes. Strong promoters are one of the essential factors that can improve 
strain performance by overexpression of specific genes. In this study, a 
pipeline for screening strong promoters by proteomics analysis was established. 
Based on the procedure, a new strong promoter designated as P B932_2000 was 
identified in G. oxydans WSH-003. The promoter region was characterized based on 
known genome sequence information using BPROM. The strength of P B932_2000 was 
further assessed by analysis of enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) 
expression and comparison with egfp expression by two commonly used strong 
promoters, P E. coli_tufB and P G. oxydans_tufB . Both quantitative real-time 
PCR and fluorescence intensities for egfp gene expression showed that P 
B932_2000 promoter is stronger than the other two. Overexpression of D-sorbitol 
dehydrogenase (sldh) by P B932_2000 in G. oxydans WSH-003 enhanced the titer and 
productivity of L-sorbose synthesis from D-sorbitol by 12.0 % and 33.3 %, 
respectively. These results showed that proteomics analysis is an efficient way 
to identify strong promoters. The isolated promoter P B932_2000 could further 
facilitate the metabolic engineering of G. oxydans.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-015-1624-7
PMID: 25952118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46653. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046653. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

GFP facilitates native purification of recombinant perlucin derivatives and 
delays the precipitation of calcium carbonate.

Weber E(1), Guth C, Weiss IM.

Author information:
(1)INM - Leibniz Institute for New Materials gGmbH, Saarbruecken, Germany.

Insolubility is one of the possible functions of proteins involved in 
biomineralization, which often limits their native purification. This becomes a 
major problem especially when recombinant expression systems are required to 
obtain larger amounts. For example, the mollusc shell provides a rich source of 
unconventional proteins, which can interfere in manifold ways with different 
mineral phases and interfaces. Therefore, the relevance of such proteins for 
biotechnological processes is still in its infancy. Here we report a simple and 
reproducible purification procedure for a GFP-tagged lectin involved in 
biomineralization, originally isolated from mother-of-pearl in abalone shells. 
An optimization of E. coli host cell culture conditions was the key to obtain 
reasonable yields and high degrees of purity by using simple one-step affinity 
chromatography. We identified a dual functional role for the GFP domain when it 
became part of a mineralizing system in vitro. First, the GFP domain improved 
the solubility of an otherwise insoluble protein, in this case recombinant 
perlucin derivatives. Second, GFP inhibited calcium carbonate precipitation in a 
concentration dependent manner. This was demonstrated here using a simple bulk 
assay over a time period of 400 seconds. At concentrations of 2 µg/ml and 
higher, the inhibitory effect was observed predominantly for HCO(3) (-) as the 
first ionic interaction partner, but not necessarily for Ca(2+). The 
interference of GFP-tagged perlucin derivatives with the precipitation of 
calcium carbonate generated different types of GFP-fluorescent composite calcite 
crystals. GFP-tagging offers therefore a genetically tunable tool to gently 
modify mechanical and optical properties of synthetic biocomposite minerals.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046653
PMCID: PMC3463529
PMID: 23056388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1298. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Mar;107:56-61. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.011. Epub 
2014 Nov 25.

Recombinant expression, purification and preliminary characterization of the 
mRNA export factor MEX67 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Chhetri G(1), Pandey T(1), Kumar B(1), Akhtar MS(2), Tripathi T(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biophysics Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, North-Eastern 
Hill University, Shillong 793022, India.
(2)Molecular and Structural Biology Division, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Jankipuram Extension, Lucknow 226031, India. Electronic address: 
sohail@cdri.res.in.
(3)Molecular Biophysics Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, North-Eastern 
Hill University, Shillong 793022, India. Electronic address: 
timir.tripathi@gmail.com.

The nuclear export of macromolecules is facilitated by the nuclear pore 
complexes (NPCs), embedded in the nuclear envelope and consists of multi-protein 
complexes. MEX67 is one of the nuclear export factor responsible for the 
transport of the majority of cellular mRNAs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. 
The mechanism of mRNA transport through NPCs is unclear due to the 
unavailability of structures and the known interacting partners of MEX67. The 
mex67 gene was cloned in pQE30A and was expressed in Escherichia coli. A 
strategy has been developed to purify the insoluble MEX67 using a nickel 
affinity column with chelating Sepharose fast flow media, after solubilizing 
with sodium lauroyl sarcosinate (Sarkosyl). The IMAC purified recombinant MEX67 
was further purified using SEC to apparent homogeneity (∼8 mg/L). Following SEC, 
MEX67 was stable and observed to be a 67 kDa monomeric protein as determined by 
PAGE and the size exclusion chromatography. The availability of large quantities 
of the protein will help in its biochemical and biophysical characterization, 
which may lead to the identification of new interaction partners of MEX67 or 
MEX67 complex.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.011
PMID: 25462802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2007 May;23(3):446-51.

[Cloning and prokaryotic expression of major ampullate spidroin gene of spider].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan HC(1), Song DX, Zhou KY, Zhu GP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Evolution & Biodiversity, College of Life Sciences, 
Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241000, China. panhongchun@126.com

RT-PCR was conducted with one degenerate primer designed according to repetitive 
regions' amino acid sequence of major ampullate spidroin (MaSp) in spiders and 
adaptor primer in the SMART cDNA Library Construction Kit. By cloning and 
sequencing of amplified products, one cDNA clone (GenBank Accession No. 
AY365017) of Argiope amoena MaSp gene was obtained. The deduced amino acid 
sequence can be distinctly divided into two regions: (1) Repetitive region that 
consists of an alternating alanine-rich and glycine-rich domain in which many 
prolines are present; and (2) C-terminal non-repetitive region. The region 
coding for 272 amino acids of MaSp gene was subcloned into prokaryotic 
expression vector pET28b(+) and an about 26kD recombinant protein was expressed 
at high levels in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) after induction of IPTG. After 
being purified with metal-affinity chromatography on Ni(2+) -IDA-Sepharose 
columns as well as gel filtration chromatography, the recombinant protein was 
confirmed to be predicted MaSp by means of amino acid composition analysis and 
N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis. The solubility behavior of recombinant 
MaSp with C-terminal non-repetitive region in the present study is similar to 
that of recombinant dragline silk proteins without C-terminal non-repetitive 
region expressed by bacteria and yeast in the other studies. The result shows 
that absence or presence of C-terminal non-repetitive region is not a crucial 
factor affecting the solubility of the recombinant MaSp.

PMID: 17577991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Jun;110:165-71. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.03.013. Epub 
2015 Mar 27.

Expression and purification of short hydrophobic elastin-like polypeptides with 
maltose-binding protein as a solubility tag.

Bataille L(1), Dieryck W(2), Hocquellet A(2), Cabanne C(2), Bathany K(3), 
Lecommandoux S(4), Garbay B(5), Garanger E(1).

Author information:
(1)Univ. Bordeaux, LCPO, UMR 5629, F-33600 Pessac, France; CNRS, LCPO, UMR 5629, 
F-33600 Pessac, France; Bordeaux INP, LCPO, UMR 5629, F-33600 Pessac, France; 
Institut Européen de Chimie et Biologie, F-33600 Pessac, France.
(2)Univ. Bordeaux, BPRVS, EA4135, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; Bordeaux INP, BPRVS, 
EA4135, F-33000 Bordeaux, France.
(3)Univ. Bordeaux, CBMN, UMR 5248, F-33600 Pessac, France; CNRS, CBMN, UMR5248, 
F-33600 Pessac, France; Bordeaux INP, CBMN, UMR5248, F-33600 Pessac, France.
(4)Univ. Bordeaux, LCPO, UMR 5629, F-33600 Pessac, France; CNRS, LCPO, UMR 5629, 
F-33600 Pessac, France; Bordeaux INP, LCPO, UMR 5629, F-33600 Pessac, France.
(5)Univ. Bordeaux, BPRVS, EA4135, F-33000 Bordeaux, France; Bordeaux INP, BPRVS, 
EA4135, F-33000 Bordeaux, France. Electronic address: bertrand.garbay@ipb.fr.

Elastin-like polypeptides (ELPs) are biodegradable polymers with interesting 
physico-chemical properties for biomedical and biotechnological applications. 
The recombinant expression of hydrophobic elastin-like polypeptides is often 
difficult because they possess low transition temperatures, and therefore form 
aggregates at sub-ambient temperatures. To circumvent this difficulty, we 
expressed in Escherichia coli three hydrophobic ELPs (VPGIG)n with variable 
lengths (n=20, 40, and 60) in fusion with the maltose-binding protein (MBP). 
Fusion proteins were soluble and yields of purified MBP-ELP ranged between 66 
and 127mg/L culture. After digestion of the fusion proteins by enterokinase, the 
ELP moiety was purified by using inverse transition cycling. The purified 
fraction containing ELP40 was slightly contaminated by traces of undigested 
fusion protein. Purification of ELP60 was impaired because of co-purification of 
the MBP tag during inverse transition cycling. ELP20 was successfully purified 
to homogeneity, as assessed by gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry 
analyses. The transition temperature of ELP20 was measured at 15.4°C in low salt 
buffer. In conclusion, this method can be used to produce hydrophobic ELP of low 
molecular mass.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.03.013
PMID: 25819942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. Mol Biol Rep. 2015 Mar;42(3):651-63. doi: 10.1007/s11033-014-3812-3. Epub 2014 
Nov 13.

Soluble overexpression and purification of bioactive human CCL2 in E. coli by 
maltose-binding protein.

Vu TT(1), Koo BK, Song JA, Chong SH, Park CR, Nguyen MT, Jeong B, Ryu HB, Seong 
JY, Jang YJ, Robinson RC, Choe H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-Medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, 138-736, South Korea.

Human chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (hCCL2) is a small cytokine in the CC 
chemokine family that attracts monocytes, memory T lymphocytes, and natural 
killer cells to the site of tissue injury- or infection-induced inflammation. 
hCCL2 has been implicated in the pathogeneses of diseases characterized by 
monocytic infiltrates, including psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, 
atherosclerosis, multiple sclerosis, and insulin-resistant diabetes. The 
prokaryotic overexpression of hCCL2 has been investigated previously in an 
attempt to develop biomedical applications for this factor, but this has been 
hampered by protein misfolding and aggregation into inclusion bodies. In our 
present study, we screened 7 protein tags-Trx, GST, MBP, NusA, His8, PDI, and 
PDIb'a'-for their ability to allow the soluble overexpression of hCCL2. Three 
tags-MBP, His8, and PDI-solubilized more than half of the expressed hCCL2 fusion 
proteins. Lowering the expression temperature to 18 °C significantly further 
improved the solubility of all fusion proteins. MBP was chosen for further study 
based on its solubility, expression level, ease of purification, and tag size. 
MBP-CCL2 was purified using conventional chromatography and cleaved using TEV or 
Factor Xa proteases. Biological activity was assessed using luciferase and cell 
migration assays. Factor Xa-cleaved hCCL2 was found to be active and TEV-cleaved 
hCCL2 showed relatively less activity. This is probably because the additional 
glycine residues present at the N-terminus of hCCL2 following TEV digestion 
interfere with the binding of hCCL2 to its receptor.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-014-3812-3
PMID: 25391768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr. 2005 Oct;61(Pt 10):1378-85. doi: 
10.1107/S0907444905023590. Epub 2005 Sep 28.

A flexible and economical medium-throughput strategy for protein production and 
crystallization.

Moreland N(1), Ashton R, Baker HM, Ivanovic I, Patterson S, Arcus VL, Baker EN, 
Lott JS.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92-019, 
Auckland, New Zealand. n.moreland@auckland.ac.nz

Large-scale structural genomics centres rely heavily on robotics to ensure that 
maximum throughput is achieved. However, the size and cost of these approaches 
is out of the reach of most academic structural biology efforts. A major 
challenge for such groups is to adapt current high-throughput schemes to a 
reasonable scale with the resources available. A flexible medium-throughput 
approach has been developed that is suitable for typical academic research 
groups. Following nested PCR, targets are routinely cloned into two Gateway 
expression vectors (pDEST15 for an N-terminal GST tag and pDEST17 for an 
N-terminal His tag). Expression of soluble recombinant protein in Escherichia 
coli is rapidly assessed in 96-well format. An eight-probe sonicator is utilized 
and a six-buffer lysis screen was incorporated to enhance solubility. Robotics 
is reserved for crystallization, since this is the key bottleneck for 
crystallography. Screening proteins with a 480-condition protocol using a 
Cartesian nanolitre-dispensing robot has increased crystallization success 
markedly, with an overall success rate (structures solved out of proteins 
screened) of 19%. The methods are robust and economical -- with the exception of 
the crystallization robot, investment in additional equipment has been minimal 
at 9000 US dollars. All protocols are designed for individuals so that graduate 
students and postdoctoral fellows gain expertise in every aspect of the 
structural pipeline, from cloning to crystallization.

DOI: 10.1107/S0907444905023590
PMID: 16204890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Microb Cell Fact. 2008 Dec 2;7:35. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-7-35.

Effect of temperature up-shift on fermentation and metabolic characteristics in 
view of gene expressions in Escherichia coli.

Hasan CM(1), Shimizu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience & Bioinformatics, Kyushu Institute of Technology, 
Iizuka, Fakuoka 820-8502, Japan. shimi@bio.kyutech.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Escherichia coli induces heat shock genes to the temperature 
up-shift, and changes the metabolism by complicated mechanism. The heat shock 
response is of practical importance for the variety of applications such as 
temperature-induced heterologous protein production, simultaneous 
saccharification and fermentation (SSF) etc. However, the effect of heat shock 
on the metabolic regulation is not well investigated. It is strongly desired to 
understand the metabolic changes and its mechanism upon heat shock in practice 
for the efficient metabolite production by temperature up-shift. In the present 
research, therefore, we investigated the effect of temperature up-shift from 37 
degrees C to 42 degrees C on the metabolism in view of gene expressions.
RESULTS: The results of aerobic batch and continuous cultivations of E. coli 
BW25113 indicate that more acetate was accumulated with lower biomass yield and 
less glucose consumption rate at 42 degrees C as compared to the case at 37 
degrees C. The down- regulation of the glucose uptake rate corresponds to the 
down-regulation of ptsG gene expression caused by the up-regulation of mlc gene 
expression. In accordance with up-regulation of arcA, which may be caused by the 
lower oxygen solubility at 42 degrees C, the expressions of the TCA 
cycle-related genes and the respiratory chain gene cyoA were down-regulated. The 
decreased activity of TCA cycle caused more acetate formation at higher 
temperature, which is not preferred in heterologous protein production etc. This 
can be overcome by the arcA gene knockout to some extent. The time courses of 
gene expressions revealed that the heat shock genes such as groEL, dnaK, htpG 
and ibpB as well as mlc were expressed in much the same way as that of rpoH 
during the first 10-20 minutes after temperature up-shift. Under microaerobic 
condition, the fermentation changed in such a way that formate and lactate were 
more produced due to up-regulation of pflA and ldhA genes while ethanol was less 
produced due to down-regulation of adhE gene at higher temperature as compared 
to the case at 37 degrees C.
CONCLUSION: The present result clarified the mechanism of metabolic changes upon 
heat shock from 37 degrees C to 42 degrees C based on gene expressions of heat 
shock genes, global regulators, and the metabolic pathway genes. It is 
recommended to use arcA gene knockout mutant to prevent higher acetate 
production upon heat shock, where it must be noted that the cell yield may be 
decreased due to TCA cycle activation by arcA gene knockout.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-7-35
PMCID: PMC2634768
PMID: 19055729


1304. Methods Mol Biol. 2006;320:39-59. doi: 10.1385/1-59259-998-2:39.

Expression of Recombinant Flavin-Containing Monooxygenases in a 
Baculovirus/Insect Cell System.

Janmohamed A(1), Thaunsukon P(2), Shephard EA(1), Phillips IR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University College London, 
London, UK.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, Queen Mary, University of London, London, UK.

The baculovirus/insect cell heterologous expression system provides an important 
tool for investigating the catalytic activity of individual drug-metabolizing 
enzymes toward a particular substrate. In this chapter we describe a 
baculovirus/insect cell system that we have used for the expression of human and 
mouse flavin-containing monooxygenases. Methods are described for the generation 
of recombinant baculoviral DNAs, via both site-specific transposition in 
Escherichia coli and site-specific recombination in vitro; adaptation of 
Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf) 9 cells to shaking culture and to serum-free medium; 
cryopreservation and transfection of Sf9 cells; amplification of baculovirus and 
determination of viral titer; analysis of baculoviral DNA; and expression and 
analysis of recombinant proteins.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-998-2:39
PMID: 27699678


1305. Can J Microbiol. 2007 Apr;53(4):472-9. doi: 10.1139/w06-138.

Evaluation of different ways of presenting LipL32 to the immune system with the 
aim of developing a recombinant vaccine against leptospirosis.

Seixas FK(1), Fernandes CH, Hartwig DD, Conceição FR, Aleixo JA, Dellagostin OA.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.

Leptospirosis, caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira, is a direct zoonosis 
with wide geographical distribution. The implications in terms of public health 
and the economical losses caused by leptospirosis justify the use of a vaccine 
against Leptospira in human or animal populations at risk. In this study, we 
used the external membrane protein LipL32 as a model antigen, as it is highly 
immunogenic. The LipL32 coding sequence was cloned into several expression 
vectors: (i) pTarget, to create a DNA vaccine; (ii) pUS973, pUS974, and pUS977 
for expression in BCG (rBCG); and (iii) pAE, to express the recombinant protein 
in Escherichia coli, for a subunit vaccine. Mice were immunized with the various 
constructs, and the immune response was evaluated. The highest humoral immune 
response was elicited by the subunit vaccine (rLipL32). However, with rBCG, the 
titer was still rising at the end of the experiment. The serum of vaccinated 
animals was able to recognize LipL32 on the membrane of the Leptospira, detected 
by indirect immunofluorescence. A monoclonal antibody anti-LipL32 was shown to 
inhibit the growth of Leptospira in vitro, indicating potential protection 
induced by the LipL32 antigen.

DOI: 10.1139/w06-138
PMID: 17612601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. J Virol Methods. 2013 Apr;189(1):58-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2012.11.035. 
Epub 2013 Jan 11.

Easy expression of the C-terminal heavy chain domain of botulinum neurotoxin 
serotype A as a vaccine candidate using a bi-cistronic baculovirus system.

Villaflores OB(1), Hsei CM, Teng CY, Chen YJ, Wey JJ, Tsui PY, Shyu RH, Tung KL, 
Yeh JM, Chiao DJ, Wu TY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chungli 32023, 
Taiwan.

Clostridial botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) is one of the most toxic proteins 
causing the food borne disease, botulism. In previous studies, recombinant BoNT 
production by Escherichia coli and yeast Pichia pastoris has been hampered by 
high AT content and codon bias in the gene encoding BoNT and required a 
synthetic gene to resolve this intrinsic bottleneck. This paper reports the 
simultaneous expression of the C-terminal heavy chain domain of BoNT 
(rBoNT/A-HC-6h) and enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) using a 
bi-cistronic baculovirus-insect cell expression system. The expression of EGFP 
facilitated the monitoring of viral infection, virus titer determination, and 
isolation of the recombinant virus. Protein fusion with hexa-His-tag and 
one-step immobilized metal-ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) purification 
produced a homogenous, stable, and immunologically active 55-kDa rBoNT/A-HC-6h 
(about 3mg/L) with >90% purity. Furthermore, measured levels of serum titers 
were 8-folds for mice vaccinated with the purified rBoNT/A-HC-6h (2μg) than for 
mice administered with botulinum toxoid after initial immunization. Challenge 
experiment with botulinum A toxin demonstrated the immunoprotective activity of 
purified rBoNT/A-HC-6h providing the mice full protection against 10(2) LD50 
botulinum A toxin with a dose as low as 0.2μg. This study provided supportive 
evidence for the use of a bi-cistronic baculovirus-Sf21 insect cell expression 
system in the facile expression of an immunogenically active rBoNT/A-HC.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2012.11.035
PMID: 23313783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2006 Dec;29(5-6):315-21. doi: 10.1007/s00449-006-0080-1. 
Epub 2006 Sep 6.

Improving the batch-to-batch reproducibility in microbial cultures during 
recombinant protein production by guiding the process along a predefined total 
biomass profile.

Jenzsch M(1), Gnoth S, Kleinschmidt M, Simutis R, Lübbert A.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Bioverfahrenstechnik, Martin-Luther-Universitaet, Weinbergweg 22, 
c/o Biozentrum, 06120 Halle, Saale, Germany 
marco.jenzsch@biochemtech.uni-halle.de.

In industry Escherichia coli is the preferred host system for the heterologous 
biosynthesis of therapeutic proteins that do not need posttranslational 
modifications. In this report, the development of a robust high-cell-density 
fed-batch procedure for the efficient production of a therapeutic hormone is 
described. The strategy is to guide the process along a predefined profile of 
the total biomass that was derived from a given specific growth rate profile. 
This profile might have been built upon experience or derived from numerical 
process optimization. A surprisingly simple adaptive procedure correcting for 
deviations from the desired path was developed. In this way the batch-to-batch 
reproducibility can be drastically improved as compared to the process control 
strategies typically applied in industry. This applies not only to the biomass 
but, as the results clearly show, to the product titer also.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-006-0080-1
PMCID: PMC1705514
PMID: 16955246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1308. Sheng Wu Hua Xue Yu Sheng Wu Wu Li Xue Bao (Shanghai). 2003 Nov;35(11):1023-8.

Cloning and expression of adiponectin and its globular domain, and measurement 
of the biological activity in vivo.

Hu XB(1), Zhang YJ, Zhang HT, Yang SL, Gong Y.

Author information:
(1)Research Center of Biotechnology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological 
Sciences, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200233, China.

3T3-L1-adipocytes produce the adipocyte complement related protein of 30 kD 
(ACRP30), which is exclusively expressed in differentiated adipocytes. Decreased 
expression of ACRP30 correlates with insulin resistance in mouse models of 
altered insulin sensitivity. Adiponectin, the human homologue of ACRP30, 
circulates in human plasma at high levels. Plasma adiponectin levels have been 
reported to be decreased in some insulin-resistant states, such as obesity and 
type II diabetes mellitus. Here, full-length adiponectin and its C-terminal 
globular head domain (gAdiponectin) were expressed in Escherichia coli and 
gAdiponectin was used to immunize a rabbit to obtain polyclonal antiserum with 
titer of 10,000. Adiponectin was detected in human plasma with the use of 
gAdiponectin anti-serum by Western blot analysis, which was also detected by 
gACRP30 anti-serum. Injection in alloxan-treated rats with purified recombinant 
fusion adiponectin or gAdiponectin transiently abolished hyperglycemia. So 
adiponectin and gAdiponectin might have activity as a glucose lowering agent and 
potentially as a therapeutic for metabolic disease. All these results suggested 
that the recombinant protein had biological activity, and provided a useful tool 
in further studies.

PMID: 14614541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2018 Apr;184(4):1155-1167. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-017-2599-9. Epub 2017 Oct 2.

Recombinant Production and Characterization of SAC, the Core Domain of Par-4, by 
SUMO Fusion System.

Zhang J(1), Sun A(2), Dong Y(1), Wei D(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 
200237, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 
200237, China. sunaiyou@ecust.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, New World Institute of 
Biotechnology, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, 
200237, China. dzhwei@ecust.edu.cn.

Prostate apoptosis response-4 (Par-4), an anticancer protein that interacts with 
cell surface receptor GRP78, can selectively suppress proliferation and induce 
apoptosis of cancer cells. The core domain of Par-4 (aa 137-195), designated as 
SAC, is sufficient to inhibit tumor growth and metastasis without harming normal 
tissues and organs. Nevertheless, the anticancer effects of SAC have not been 
determined in ovarian cancer cells. Here, we developed a novel method for 
producing native SAC in Escherichia coli using a small ubiquitin-related 
modifier (SUMO) fusion system. This fusion system not only greatly improved the 
solubility of target protein but also enhanced the expression level of SUMO-SAC. 
After purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography, SUMO tag was cleaved from 
SUMO-SAC fusion protein using SUMO protease to obtain recombinant SAC. 
Furthermore, we simplified the purification process by combining the SUMO-SAC 
purification and SUMO tag cleavage into one step. Finally, the purity of 
recombinant SAC reached as high as 95% and the yield was 25 mg/L. Our results 
demonstrated that recombinant SAC strongly inhibited proliferation and induced 
apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells SKOV-3. Immunofluorescence analysis and 
competitive binding reaction showed that recombinant SAC could specifically 
induce apoptosis of SKOV-3 cells through combination with cell surface receptor, 
GRP78. Therefore, we have developed an effective strategy for expressing 
bioactive SAC in prokaryotic cells, which supports the application of SAC in 
ovarian cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-017-2599-9
PMID: 28971310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2022 Jan 25;9:792023. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.792023. 
eCollection 2021.

A Green Route for High-Yield Production of Tetramethylpyrazine From Non-Food Raw 
Materials.

Li J(1), Lu J(1), Ma Z(1), Li J(2), Chen X(2), Diao M(2), Xie N(2).

Author information:
(1)Life Science and Technology College, State Key Laboratory for Conservation 
and Utilization of Subtropical Agro-bioresources, Guangxi University, Nanning, 
Guangxi, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Non-food Biomass and Enzyme Technology, National 
Engineering Research Center for Non-food Biorefinery, Guangxi Biomass 
Engineering Technology Research Center, Guangxi Key Laboratory of Biorefinery, 
Guangxi Academy of Sciences, Nanning, Guangxi, China.

2,3,5,6-Tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) is an active pharmaceutical ingredient 
originally isolated from Ligusticum wallichii for curing cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular diseases and is widely used as a popular flavoring additive in 
the food industry. Hence, there is a great interest in developing new strategies 
to produce this high-value compound in an ecological and economical way. Herein, 
a cost-competitive combinational approach was proposed to accomplish green and 
high-efficiency production of TMP. First, microbial cell factories were 
constructed to produce acetoin (3-hydroxy-2-butanone, AC), an endogenous 
precursor of TMP, by introducing a biosynthesis pathway coupled with an 
intracellular NAD+ regeneration system to the wild-type Escherichia coli. To 
further improve the production of (R)-AC, the metabolic pathways of by-products 
were impaired or blocked stepwise by gene manipulation, resulting in 40.84 g/L 
(R)-AC with a high optical purity of 99.42% in shake flasks. Thereafter, an 
optimal strain designated GXASR11 was used to convert the hydrolysates of 
inexpensive feedstocks into (R)-AC and achieved a titer of 86.04 g/L within 48 h 
in a 5-L fermenter under optimized fermentation conditions. To the best of our 
knowledge, this is the highest (R)-AC production with high optical purity (≥98%) 
produced from non-food raw materials using recombinant E. coli. The supernatant 
of fermentation broth was mixed with diammonium phosphate (DAP) to make a total 
volume of 20 ml and transferred to a high-pressure microreactor. Finally, 
56.72 g/L TMP was obtained in 3 h via the condensation reaction with a high 
conversion rate (85.30%) under optimal reaction conditions. These results 
demonstrated a green and sustainable approach to efficiently produce high-valued 
TMP, which realized value addition of low-cost renewables.

Copyright © 2022 Li, Lu, Ma, Li, Chen, Diao and Xie.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2021.792023
PMCID: PMC8823705
PMID: 35145961

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


1311. Trop Biomed. 2021 Mar 1;38(1):36-41. doi: 10.47665/tb.38.1.007.

Evaluation of neutralizing antibodies produced by papaya mosaic virus 
nanoparticles fused to the E2EP3 peptide epitope of Chikungunya envelope.

Nor Rashid N(1), Teoh TC(2), Al-Harbi SJ(3), Yusof R(4), Rothan HA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 
50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Bioinformatics Programme, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, University of Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Human Anatomy, College of Medicine, University of Babylon, 
Iraq.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine.
(5)Department of Biology, College of Arts and Sciences, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) infection is the cause of acute symptoms and chronic 
symmetrical polyarthritis associated with long-term morbidity and mortality. 
Currently, there is no available licensed vaccine or particularly useful drug 
for human use against CHIKV infection. This study was conducted to evaluate the 
efficacy of antibodies produced by papaya mosaic virus (PapMV) nanoparticles 
fused to E2EP3 peptide of CHIKV envelope as a recombinant CHIKV vaccine. PapMV, 
PapMV-C- E2EP3, and E2EP3-N-PapMV were produced in E. coli with an approximate 
size of 27 to 30 kDa. ICR mice (5 to 6 weeks of age) were injected 
subcutaneously with 25 micrograms of vaccine construct, and ELISA measured the 
titer of CHIKV specific IgG antibodies. The results showed that both recombinant 
proteins E2EP3-N-PapMV and PapMVC-E2EP3 were able to induce IgG antibodies 
production in immunized mice against CHIKV while immunization with recombinant 
PapMV showed no IgG antibodies induction. The neutralizing activity of the 
antibodies generated by either E2EP3-N-PapMV or PapMV-C-E2EP3 exhibited similar 
inhibition to CHIKV replication in Vero cells using the cells based antibody 
neutralizing assay and analyzed by plaque formation assay. This study showed the 
effectiveness of nanoparticles vaccine generated by fusing epitope peptide of 
CHIKV envelope to papaya mosaic virus envelope in inducing a robust immune 
response in mice against CHIKV. The data showed that levels of neutralizing 
antibodies correlate with a protective immune response CHIKV replication.

DOI: 10.47665/tb.38.1.007
PMID: 33797522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. J Pharm Sci. 2018 Jul;107(7):1806-1819. doi: 10.1016/j.xphs.2018.03.002. Epub 
2018 Mar 8.

Analytical Comparability Assessments of 5 Recombinant CRM(197) Proteins From 
Different Manufacturers and Expression Systems.

Hickey JM(1), Toprani VM(1), Kaur K(1), Mishra RPN(2), Goel A(2), Oganesyan 
N(3), Lees A(3), Sitrin R(4), Joshi SB(1), Volkin DB(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Macromolecule and Vaccine 
Stabilization Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66047.
(2)Biological E. Ltd., Hyderabad, Telangana 500078, India.
(3)Fina Biosolutions LLC, Rockville, Maryland 20850.
(4)PATH, Washington, Dist. of Columbia 20001.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Macromolecule and Vaccine 
Stabilization Center, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66047. Electronic 
address: volkin@ku.edu.

Cross-reacting material 197 (CRM197), a single amino acid mutant of diphtheria 
toxoid, is a commonly used carrier protein in commercial polysaccharide protein 
conjugate vaccines. In this study, CRM197 proteins from 3 different expression 
systems and 5 different manufacturers were obtained for an analytical 
comparability assessment using a wide variety of physicochemical and in vitro 
antigenic binding assays. A comprehensive analysis of the 5 CRM197 molecules 
demonstrate that recombinant CRM197's expressed in heterologous systems 
(Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas fluorescens) are overall highly similar (if 
not better in some cases) to those expressed in the traditional system 
(Corynebacterium diphtheriae) in terms of primary sequence/post-translational 
modifications, higher order structural integrity, apparent solubility, physical 
stability profile (vs. pH and temperature), and in vitro antigenicity. These 
results are an encouraging step to demonstrate that recombinant CRM197 expressed 
in alternative sources have the potential to replace CRM197 expressed in C 
diphtheriae as a source of immunogenic carrier protein for lower cost 
polysaccharide conjugate vaccines. The physicochemical assays established in 
this work to monitor the key structural attributes of CRM197 should also prove 
useful as complementary characterization methods (to routine quality control 
assays) to support future process and formulation development of lower cost 
CRM197 carrier proteins for use in various conjugate vaccines.

Copyright © 2018 American Pharmacists Association®. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xphs.2018.03.002
PMID: 29526446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2016 Apr 18;82(9):2709-2717. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00224-16. 
Print 2016 May.

A New Strategy for Production of 5-Aminolevulinic Acid in Recombinant 
Corynebacterium glutamicum with High Yield.

Yang P(1), Liu W(1), Cheng X(2), Wang J(1), Wang Q(3)(2), Qi Q(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Shandong University, Jinan, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)National Glycoengineering Center, Shandong University, Jinan, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Shandong University, Jinan, 
People's Republic of China qiqi20011983@gmail.com.

5-Aminolevulinic acid (ALA), a nonprotein amino acid involved in tetrapyrrole 
synthesis, has been widely applied in agriculture, medicine, and food 
production. Many engineered metabolic pathways have been constructed; however, 
the production yields are still low. In this study, several 5-aminolevulinic 
acid synthases (ALASs) from different sources were evaluated and compared with 
respect to their ALA production capacities in an engineered Corynebacterium 
glutamicum CgS1 strain that can accumulate succinyl-coenzyme A (CoA). A 
codon-optimized ALAS from Rhodobacter capsulatus SB1003 displayed the best 
potential. Recombinant strain CgS1/pEC-SB produced 7.6 g/liter ALA using a 
mineral salt medium in a fed-batch fermentation mode. Employing two-stage 
fermentation, 12.46 g/liter ALA was produced within 17 h, with a productivity of 
0.73 g/liter/h, in recombinant C. glutamicum Through overexpression of the 
heterologous nonspecific ALA exporter RhtA from Escherichia coli, the titer was 
further increased to 14.7 g/liter. This indicated that strain CgS1/pEC-SB-rhtA 
holds attractive industrial application potential for the future.
IMPORTANCE: In this study, a two-stage fermentation strategy was used for 
production of the value-added nonprotein amino acid 5-aminolevulinic acid from 
glucose and glycine in a generally recognized as safe (GRAS) 
host,Corynebacterium glutamicum The ALA titer represented the highest in the 
literature, to our knowledge. This high production capacity, combined with the 
potential easy downstream processes, made the recombinant strain an attractive 
candidate for industrial use in the future.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00224-16
PMCID: PMC4836415
PMID: 26921424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. J Biochem Biophys Methods. 2007 Jun 10;70(4):539-46. doi: 
10.1016/j.jbbm.2006.12.002. Epub 2006 Dec 19.

Expression and purification of HtpX-like small heat shock integral membrane 
protease of an unknown organism related to Methylobacillus flagellatus.

Siddiqui AA(1), Jalah R, Sharma YD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Ansari 
Nagar, New Delhi-110029, India.

The M48 conserved family of peptidases contains a single catalytic zinc ion 
tetrahedrally co-ordinated by two histidines within an HEXXH motif. The 
proteases of this class are generally toxic to the cell and thus difficult to 
express and purify. Here, we report the expression and purification of the small 
HtpX-like heat shock metalloprotease from an unknown organism related to the 
obligate methylotrophic anaerobic bacterium, Methylobacillus flagellatus. The 
protease was expressed in the Escherichia coli vector - pT7. Optimization of 
expression was done to increase the yield and solubility of the expressed 
protein. Improved refolding procedures from inclusion bodies of pT7 E. coli 
system were devised to get the protease in an active and stable form. The 
protease was purified to near homogeneity in its active form from the refolded 
proteins of the inclusion bodies by a two-step (cation exchange followed by gel 
filtration) high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The purified protease 
was active on zymography and casein hydrolysis assays. The activity of the 
protease was found to be optimum at pH 7.4 and at a temperature of 37 degrees C 
but significant activity was also retained at higher temperatures of 45-50 
degrees C. Centrifugal fractionation showed that it is a membrane localized 
endopeptidase. The methods described here can serve as guidelines to express and 
purify other homologues of M48 family of proteases for functional and structural 
studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbbm.2006.12.002
PMID: 17239953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Springerplus. 2016 Oct 3;5(1):1705. doi: 10.1186/s40064-016-3330-y. eCollection 
2016.

Gene cloning, expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of Rab3A for 
protein interaction analysis.

Tang X(1), Chen J(1), Wang Y(1), Wang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Protein Chemistry and Developmental Biology of Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410081 
Hunan China.

BACKGROUND: Rab3A is a GTP-binding protein and plays critical roles in the 
regulation of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Up to date, how Rab3A participates in 
such a regulatory process is not completely clear.
RESULTS: In this report the Rab3A gene from Rattus norvegicus was cloned and 
heterologously expressed in E. coli using pCold-TF expression vector with 
folding capacity. Due to the presence of His-tag sequence on the N-terminal 
side, Rab3A fusion protein was purified to greater than 95 % purity with a 
single Ni-affinity purification step. After the Rab3A fusion protein was used to 
immunize mice, an anti-serum against Rab3A with a titer of about 6000 was 
generated. Western blot analysis indicated that the prepared polyclonal antibody 
could recognize both Rab3A fusion protein and native Rab3A protein. To remove 
the tag sequence, thrombin was used to cleave the Rab3A fusion protein, followed 
by SDS-PAGE to separate the cleavage products. Using the gel protein recovery 
strategy with a Micro Protein PAGE Recovery Kit, the de-tagged Rab3A protein of 
electrophoretic purity was prepared.
CONCLUSIONS: The present work not only prepared the ground for the study on 
Rab3A-mediated protein interactions, but also provided systematic experimental 
methods referable for the similar studies.

DOI: 10.1186/s40064-016-3330-y
PMCID: PMC5052235
PMID: 27795879


1316. J Biol Chem. 2018 Aug 24;293(34):13224-13233. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA118.004146. 
Epub 2018 Jul 5.

Discovery and engineering of enhanced SUMO protease enzymes.

Lau YK(1), Baytshtok V(2), Howard TA(1), Fiala BM(1), Johnson JM(1), Carter 
LP(1), Baker D(1)(3)(4), Lima CD(2)(5), Bahl CD(6)(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)From the Institute for Protein Design.
(2)the Structural Biology Program and.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, and.
(4)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98195.
(5)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Sloan Kettering Institute, Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, and.
(6)From the Institute for Protein Design, chris.bahl@proteininnovation.org.
(7)the Institute for Protein Innovation, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is commonly used as a protein fusion domain 
to facilitate expression and purification of recombinant proteins, and a 
SUMO-specific protease is then used to remove SUMO from these proteins. Although 
this protease is highly specific, its limited solubility and stability hamper 
its utility as an in vitro reagent. Here, we report improved SUMO protease 
enzymes obtained via two approaches. First, we developed a computational method 
and used it to re-engineer WT Ulp1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae to improve 
protein solubility. Second, we discovered an improved SUMO protease via genomic 
mining of the thermophilic fungus Chaetomium thermophilum, as proteins from 
thermophilic organisms are commonly employed as reagent enzymes. Following 
expression in Escherichia coli, we found that these re-engineered enzymes can be 
more thermostable and up to 12 times more soluble, all while retaining 
WT-or-better levels of SUMO protease activity. The computational method we 
developed to design solubility-enhancing substitutions is based on the 
RosettaScripts application for the macromolecular modeling suite Rosetta, and it 
is broadly applicable for the improvement of solution properties of other 
proteins. Moreover, we determined the X-ray crystal structure of a SUMO protease 
from C. thermophilum to 1.44 Å resolution. This structure revealed that this 
enzyme exhibits structural and functional conservation with the S. cerevisiae 
SUMO protease, despite exhibiting only 28% sequence identity. In summary, by 
re-engineering the Ulp1 protease and discovering a SUMO protease from C. 
thermophilum, we have obtained proteases that are more soluble, more 
thermostable, and more efficient than the current commercially available Ulp1 
enzyme.

© 2018 Lau et al.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA118.004146
PMCID: PMC6109922
PMID: 29976752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C. D. L. holds a patent for a rapidly cleavable 
SUMO fusion protein expression system for difficult to express proteins


1317. J Gen Virol. 2002 Mar;83(Pt 3):623-629. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-3-623.

Six-helix bundle assembly and characterization of heptad repeat regions from the 
F protein of Newcastle disease virus.

Yu M(1), Wang E(1), Liu Y(1), Cao D(2), Jin N(3), Zhang CW(4), Bartlam M(5), Rao 
Z(5), Tien P(1), Gao GF(6)(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Molecular Virology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing 100080, People's Republic of China1.
(2)Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Harbin 150001, People's Republic of China2.
(3)Dept of Virus Research, University of Military Supplies, Changchun 130062, 
People's Republic of China3.
(4)Laboratory of Immunobiology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Dept of 
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA4.
(5)Laboratory of Structural Biology and MOE Laboratory of Protein Sciences, 
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, People's Republic of China5.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Children's Hospital, Dept of Biological 
Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, 320 Longwood 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, and Dept of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard 
University, 7 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA6.

Paramyxoviruses may adopt a similar fusion mechanism to other enveloped viruses, 
in which an anti-parallel six-helix bundle structure is formed post-fusion in 
the heptad repeat (HR) regions of the envelope fusion protein. In order to 
understand the fusion mechanism and identify fusion inhibitors of Newcastle 
disease virus (NDV), a member of the Paramyxoviridae family, we have developed 
an E. coli system that separately expresses the F protein HR1 and HR2 regions as 
GST fusion proteins. The purified cleaved HR1 and HR2 have subsequently been 
assembled into a stable six-helix bundle heterotrimer complex. Furthermore, both 
the GST fusion protein and the cleaved HR2 show virus-cell fusion inhibition 
activity (IC(50) of 1.07-2.93 microM). The solubility of the GST-HR2 fusion 
protein is much higher than that of the corresponding peptide. Hence this 
provides a plausible method for large-scale production of HR peptides as virus 
fusion inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-3-623
PMID: 11842257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2010 Oct 15;137(3-4):251-60. doi: 
10.1016/j.vetimm.2010.06.001. Epub 2010 Jun 22.

Generation and characterization of anti-alpha-enolase single-chain antibodies in 
chicken.

Leu SJ(1), Lee YC, Shih NY, Huang IJ, Liu KJ, Lu HF, Huang SY, Yang YY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei 110, Taiwan.

It was previously reported that up-regulation of alpha-enolase protein was 
detected in 65% of patients with non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC). Moreover, 
a high titer of anti-alpha-enolase antibodies was developed in a smaller 
proportion (7.4%) of these patients than in non-tumor-associated patients and 
healthy subjects. In the present study, we characterized polyclonal and 
single-chain variable fragment (scFv) anti-alpha-enolase antibodies from 
immunized chickens. The E. coli-derived recombinant alpha-enolase protein was 
purified to its high homogenicity as verified by SDS-PAGE. After the 4th 
immunization, a high titer of specific polyclonal anti-alpha-enolase antibodies 
was elicited in immunized chickens and specifically recognized the purified 
human alpha-enolase antigen as determined by Western blot and ELISA. The 
expressed heavy and light chain variable genes (VH and VL) were isolated from 
spleen B cells and amplified to construct phage antibody libraries containing 
scFv molecules. After four rounds of panning selection, the scFv antibodies of 
randomly chosen clones were expressed and their binding specificity to 
alpha-enolase protein was verified using competitive ELISA, flow cytometry and 
immunofluorescence staining. Nucleotide sequence analysis from 10 alpha-enolase 
binding clones showed that 3 (30%) clones used identical heavy and light genes 
for scFv antibody expression, as represented by EnL5. Notably, amino acid 
changes in complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) were more frequently 
observed than those in framework regions (FRs) in all clones, indicating a 
strong affinity selection through mutations. All together, it is believed that 
these polyclonal and scFv IgY antibodies may be helpful in the development of 
molecular diagnostic and therapeutic agents for lung cancers in the future.

(c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2010.06.001
PMCID: PMC7112641
PMID: 20655599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Microb Cell Fact. 2010 Sep 14;9:69. doi: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-69.

Engineering the cell surface display of cohesins for assembly of 
cellulosome-inspired enzyme complexes on Lactococcus lactis.

Wieczorek AS(1), Martin VJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, H4B 1R6, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: The assembly and spatial organization of enzymes in naturally 
occurring multi-protein complexes is of paramount importance for the efficient 
degradation of complex polymers and biosynthesis of valuable products. The 
degradation of cellulose into fermentable sugars by Clostridium thermocellum is 
achieved by means of a multi-protein "cellulosome" complex. Assembled via 
dockerin-cohesin interactions, the cellulosome is associated with the cell 
surface during cellulose hydrolysis, forming ternary cellulose-enzyme-microbe 
complexes for enhanced activity and synergy. The assembly of recombinant cell 
surface displayed cellulosome-inspired complexes in surrogate microbes is highly 
desirable. The model organism Lactococcus lactis is of particular interest as it 
has been metabolically engineered to produce a variety of commodity chemicals 
including lactic acid and bioactive compounds, and can efficiently secrete an 
array of recombinant proteins and enzymes of varying sizes.
RESULTS: Fragments of the scaffoldin protein CipA were functionally displayed on 
the cell surface of Lactococcus lactis. Scaffolds were engineered to contain a 
single cohesin module, two cohesin modules, one cohesin and a cellulose-binding 
module, or only a cellulose-binding module. Cell toxicity from over-expression 
of the proteins was circumvented by use of the nisA inducible promoter, and 
incorporation of the C-terminal anchor motif of the streptococcal M6 protein 
resulted in the successful surface-display of the scaffolds. The facilitated 
detection of successfully secreted scaffolds was achieved by fusion with the 
export-specific reporter staphylococcal nuclease (NucA). Scaffolds retained 
their ability to associate in vivo with an engineered hybrid reporter enzyme, E. 
coli β-glucuronidase fused to the type 1 dockerin motif of the cellulosomal 
enzyme CelS. Surface-anchored complexes exhibited dual enzyme activities 
(nuclease and β-glucuronidase), and were displayed with efficiencies approaching 
104 complexes/cell.
CONCLUSIONS: We report the successful display of cellulosome-inspired 
recombinant complexes on the surface of Lactococcus lactis. Significant 
differences in display efficiency among constructs were observed and attributed 
to their structural characteristics including protein conformation and 
solubility, scaffold size, and the inclusion and exclusion of non-cohesin 
modules. The surface-display of functional scaffold proteins described here 
represents a key step in the development of recombinant microorganisms capable 
of carrying out a variety of metabolic processes including the direct conversion 
of cellulosic substrates into fuels and chemicals.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2859-9-69
PMCID: PMC2949795
PMID: 20840763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Sci Rep. 2015 Jul 28;5:12614. doi: 10.1038/srep12614.

One-step biosynthesis of α-ketoisocaproate from L-leucine by an Escherichia coli 
whole-cell biocatalyst expressing an L-amino acid deaminase from Proteus 
vulgaris.

Song Y(1), Li J(1), Shin HD(2), Du G(1), Liu L(1), Chen J(3).

Author information:
(1)1] Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China [2] Key Laboratory of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 
214122, China [3] Synergetic Innovation Center Of Food Safety and Nutrition, 
Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineeirng, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta 30332, USA.
(3)1] Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, 
Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China [2] Synergetic Innovation Center Of Food 
Safety and Nutrition, Wuxi 214122, China.

This work aimed to develop a whole-cell biotransformation process for the 
production of α-ketoisocaproate from L-leucine. A recombinant Escherichia coli 
strain was constructed by expressing an L-amino acid deaminase from Proteus 
vulgaris. To enhance α-ketoisocaproate production, the reaction conditions were 
optimized as follows: whole-cell biocatalyst 0.8 g/L, leucine concentration 
13.1 g/L, temperature 35 °C, pH 7.5, and reaction time 20 h. Under the above 
conditions, the α-ketoisocaproate titer reached 12.7 g/L with a leucine 
conversion rate of 97.8%. In addition, different leucine feeding strategies were 
examined to increase the α-ketoisocaproate titer. When 13.1 g/L leucine was 
added at 2-h intervals (from 0 to 22 h, 12 addition times), the 
α-ketoisocaproate titer reached 69.1 g/L, while the leucine conversion rate 
decreased to 50.3%. We have developed an effective process for the 
biotechnological production of α-ketoisocaproate that is more environmentally 
friendly than the traditional petrochemical synthesis approach.

DOI: 10.1038/srep12614
PMCID: PMC4517468
PMID: 26217895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Metab Eng. 2005 May;7(3):201-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2005.02.001.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for industrial production of 
glucosamine and N-acetylglucosamine.

Deng MD(1), Severson DK, Grund AD, Wassink SL, Burlingame RP, Berry A, Running 
JA, Kunesh CA, Song L, Jerrell TA, Rosson RA.

Author information:
(1)Bio-Technical Resources, 1035 South 7th Street, Manitowoc, WI 54220, USA. 
mddeng@biotechresources.com

Glucosamine and N-acetylglucosamine are currently produced by extraction and 
acid hydrolysis of chitin from shellfish waste. Production could be limited by 
the amount of raw material available and the product potentially carries the 
risk of shellfish protein contamination. Escherichia coli was modified by 
metabolic engineering to develop a fermentation process. Over-expression of 
glucosamine synthase (GlmS) and inactivation of catabolic genes increased 
glucosamine production by 15 fold, reaching 60 mg l(-1). Since GlmS is strongly 
inhibited by glucosamine-6-P, GlmS variants were generated via error-prone PCR 
and screened. Over-expression of an improved enzyme led to a glucosamine titer 
of 17 g l(-1). Rapid degradation of glucosamine and inhibitory effects of 
glucosamine and its degradation products on host cells limited further 
improvement. An alternative fermentation product, N-acetylglucosamine, is 
stable, non-inhibitory to the host and readily hydrolyzed to glucosamine under 
acidic conditions. Therefore, the glucosamine pathway was extended to 
N-acetylglucosamine by over-expressing a heterologous glucosamine-6-P 
N-acetyltransferase. Using a simple and low-cost fermentation process developed 
for this strain, over 110 g l(-1) of N-acetylglucosamine was produced.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2005.02.001
PMID: 15885618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. Commun Agric Appl Biol Sci. 2012;77(3):145-50.

Isolation, cloning and large scale expression of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) 
protein of Polymyxa betae.

Safarpour H(1), Safarnejad MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbial Biotechnology and Biosafety, Agricultural 
Biotechnology Research Institute of Iran (ABRII), Karaj, Iran.

The plasmodiophoromycete Polymyxa betae, an obligate parasite of sugar-beet 
roots, is a natural vector of Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV). To 
develop protein based diagnosis for any pathogenic agents including P. betae, a 
specific immunogenic protein has to be prepared. The glutathione-S-transferase 
(GST) is expressed in all the morphologically different stages of the pathogen's 
life cycle, and then it is a good candidate as an immunogenic agent for 
developing of specific antibodies and diagnostic purposes. The present study 
describes isolation, cloning and large scale expression and purification of P. 
betae GST protein. For this aim, total RNA was initially isolated from infected 
plants and corresponding cDNA was constructed by using reverse transcriptase and 
oligo-dT primer as well as mRNA as a template. The gene encoding GST was 
isolated and PCR-amplified from the synthesized cDNA by using specific primers. 
The amplified fragments were preliminary cloned into pTZ57R/T cloning vector. 
Intact clone containing right sequence was selected after digestion, PCR 
amplification and subsequent sequencing analysis. Next, GST encoding region 
having right sequence was recovered and sub-cloned into pET28a bacterial 
expression vector. Large scale expression of recombinant protein was performed 
in BL21-de3 strain of E. coli and purification was carried out under native 
situation through Immobolized metal ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) in column 
containing Ni-NTA agarose beads. Successful expression and purification steps 
were confirmed by SDS-PAGE followed by western blotting analysis. These results 
confirmed the high purity and integrity of GST protein which was around 21 kDa. 
Generally, the total yield of the purified protein in the culture medium was 
estimated at around 3.5 mg/mL. After purification, a major part of the purified 
proteins was precipitated identified as excess GST. To improve the solubility, 
the final concentration of purified protein was reduced to 0.5 mg/mL.

PMID: 23878968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2010 Apr;50(4):517-23.

[Construction, expression and immunocompetence of Neisseria gonorrhoeae porB and 
Escherichia coli itB fusion gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Dai Z(1), Hu S, Chen M, Lu C, Wang Y, Liu Q, Zhang Y, Yu M, Zhu C, Li Z.

Author information:
(1)Pathogenic Biology Institute, University of South China, Hengyang, 421001, 
China. daizhibing1980@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To construct prokaryotic fusion gene expression vector 
pET-30a/ltB-porB, express the recombinant fusion protein LTB-PorB and analyze 
the immunocompetence of the recombinant fusion protein in female BALB/c mice 
through intranasally immunization.
METHODS: B subunit of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LTB) and 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae Porin B (PorB) fusion gene, LTB gene and PorB gene were 
cloned into prokaryotic vector pET-30a. The recombinants were identified by 
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), enzyme digestion and DNA sequencing, and then 
expressed efficiently in Escherichia coli BL21 in the form of inclusion bodies. 
The renatured recombinant proteins had antigenicity, which was confirmed by 
Western blot. Female BALB/c mice were inoculated with renatured recombinant 
proteins without endotoxin through intranasally immunization at the days 0, 14, 
28. Next, humoral immunoresponse and cellullar immunologic response were 
detected in female BALB/c mice by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and 
methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium( MTT) colorimetric assay.
RESULTS: The level of PorB specific sIgA in genital tract and IgG in serum shown 
upward trend along with the days post innoculation in LTB-PorB group, A450 of 
sIgA in LTB-PorB group was 0.66 at the day 42, which was significantly higher 
than controls (P < 0.01), and the titer was up to 1:1280. A450 of serum IgG in 
LTB-PorB group was 0.60 at the day 28, which was significantly higher than the 
LTB and the Solution Buffer controls (P < 0.01), and the titer was up to 1:2560. 
However, the IgG between LTB-PorB group and PorB control (A450 :0.57) had no 
significant difference (P > 0.05). Stimulation index of the splenic lymphocyte 
in LTB-PorB group was significantly higher than the LTB and the Solution Buffer 
controls (P < 0.05). But the level of IFN-gamma induced by splenic lymphocyte 
between LTB-PorB group and controls had no significant difference (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The recombinant fusion protein LTB-PorB could induce high level of 
humoral immunoresponse and slightly cellullar immunologic response in female 
BALB/c mice through intranasally immunization. For the first time to our 
knowledge, the mucosal adjuvant LTB could assist PorB to induce high level of 
mucosal immune response in the genital tract mucosa of mice.

PMID: 20560356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2019 Jan-Feb;53(1):37-43. doi: 10.1134/S0026898419010129.

[The N-Terminal 6 x His Tag on β-clamp Processivity Factor Occludes Gly66 and 
Affects the Growth of Escherichia coli B834 (DE3) cells].

[Article in Russian]

Patoli AA(1)(2), Patoli ВВ(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, University of Sindh, Jamshoro, 71000 Pakistan.
(2)atifpatoli@gmail.com.
(3)bushrapatoli@gmail.com.

The affinity tags in fusion proteins are extensively used in protein expression 
techniques. The most common affinity tags, such as glutathione S-transferase 
(GST), poly-histidine, maltose binding protein (MBP), and streptavidin tags, are 
routinely used for increasing expression, improving solubility, and facilitating 
protein purification. The large affinity tags (MBP, GST) are known to influence 
the conformational homogeneity and, therefore, the three-dimensional structure 
of in vivo folded proteins. The current study described in vivo effects of small 
affinity fusion 6 x His tag on the growth of cells. Hexa-histidine tagged full 
length β-clamp and non-hexa-histidine tagged β-clamp were over-expressed and 
co-expressed in possible combinations with truncated DnaE in E. coli expression 
strain. After the induction with IPTG, the protein expression was assessed by 
SDS PAGE. The comparative analysis of the growth curves generated for the 
induced and un-induced cells demonstrated a decrease in growth rates of the 
cells over-expressing non-6 x His tagged β-clamp as compared to 6 x His tagged 
β-clamp. Based on the analysis of the soluble and insoluble protein fractions by 
SDS PAGE gels and published His-tagged β-clamp structure (PDB: 4K74) we propose 
that N-terminal 6 x His Tag on β-clamp occludes its Gly66 to ultimately affect 
its ability to interact with the 8 subunit of the clamp loader.

DOI: 10.1134/S0026898419010129
PMID: 30895951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1325. Methods Enzymol. 2015;565:3-25. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2015.06.014. Epub 2015 Jul 
21.

Robust high-yield methodologies for (2)H and (2)H/(15)N/(13)C labeling of 
proteins for structural investigations using neutron scattering and NMR.

Duff AP(1), Wilde KL(2), Rekas A(2), Lake V(2), Holden PJ(3).

Author information:
(1)National Deuteration Facility, Bragg Institute, ANSTO, Lucas Heights, New 
South Wales, Australia. Electronic address: anthony.duff@ansto.gov.au.
(2)National Deuteration Facility, Bragg Institute, ANSTO, Lucas Heights, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(3)National Deuteration Facility, Bragg Institute, Australian Nuclear Science 
and Technology Organisation, New South Wales, Australia.

We have developed a method that has proven highly reliable for the deuteration 
and triple labeling ((2)H/(15)N/(13)C) of a broad range of proteins by 
recombinant expression in Escherichia coli BL21. Typical biomass yields are 
40-80g/L wet weight, yielding 50-500mg/L purified protein. This method uses a 
simple, relatively inexpensive defined medium, and routinely results in a 
high-yield expression without need for optimization. The key elements are very 
tight control of expression, careful starter culture adaptation steps, media 
composition, and strict maintenance of aerobic conditions ensuring exponential 
growth. Temperature is reduced as required to prevent biological oxygen demand 
exceeding maximum aeration capacity. Glycerol is the sole carbon source. We have 
not encountered an upper limit for the size of proteins that can be expressed, 
achieving excellent expression for proteins from 11 to 154kDa and the quantity 
produced at 1L scale ensures that no small-angle neutron scattering, nuclear 
magnetic resonance, or neutron crystallography experiment is limited by the 
amount of deuterated material. Where difficulties remain, these tend to be cases 
of altered protein solubility due to high protein concentration and a D2O-based 
environment.

© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2015.06.014
PMID: 26577725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. BMC Biotechnol. 2012 Sep 7;12:59. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-12-59.

Rotavirus A-specific single-domain antibodies produced in baculovirus-infected 
insect larvae are protective in vivo.

Gómez-Sebastián S(1), Nuñez MC, Garaicoechea L, Alvarado C, Mozgovoj M, Lasa R, 
Kahl A, Wigdorovitz A, Parreño V, Escribano JM.

Author information:
(1)Alternative Gene Expression S.L. (ALGENEX), Centro empresarial, Parque 
Científico y Tecnológico de la Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Campus de 
Montegancedo, 28223 Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Single-domain antibodies (sdAbs), also known as nanobodies or VHHs, 
are characterized by high stability and solubility, thus maintaining the 
affinity and therapeutic value provided by conventional antibodies. Given these 
properties, VHHs offer a novel alternative to classical antibody approaches. To 
date, VHHs have been produced mainly in E. coli, yeast, plants and mammalian 
cells. To apply the single-domain antibodies as a preventive or therapeutic 
strategy to control rotavirus infections in developing countries (444,000 deaths 
in children under 5 years of age) has to be minimized their production costs.
RESULTS: Here we describe the highly efficient expression of functional VHHs by 
the Improved Baculovirus Expression System (IBES® technology), which uses a 
baculovirus expression vector in combination with Trichoplusia ni larvae as 
living biofactories. Two VHHs, named 3B2 and 2KD1, specific for the inner capsid 
protein VP6 of Group A rotavirus, were expressed in insect larvae. The IBES® 
technology achieved very high expression of 3B2 and 2KD1, reaching 2.62% and 
3.63% of the total soluble protein obtained from larvae, respectively. These 
expression levels represent up to 257 mg/L of protein extract after insect 
processing (1 L extract represents about 125 g of insect biomass or about 375 
insect larvae). Larva-derived antibodies were fully functional when tested in 
vitro and in vivo, neutralizing Group A rotaviruses and protecting offspring 
mice against rotavirus-induced diarrhea.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results open up the possibility of using insects as living 
biofactories (IBES® technology) for the cost-efficient production of these and 
other fully functional VHHs to be used for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes, 
thereby eliminating concerns regarding the use of bacterial or mammalian cells. 
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that insects have been used 
as living biofactories to produce a VHH molecule.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-12-59
PMCID: PMC3444942
PMID: 22953695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. Biochimie. 2016 Sep-Oct;128-129:8-19. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2016.06.003. Epub 
2016 Jun 23.

Expression and immunological cross-reactivity of LALP3, a novel astacin-like 
metalloprotease from brown spider (Loxosceles intermedia) venom.

Morgon AM(1), Belisario-Ferrari MR(1), Trevisan-Silva D(1), Meissner GO(1), 
Vuitika L(1), Marin B(1), Tashima AK(2), Gremski LH(3), Gremski W(4), 
Senff-Ribeiro A(1), Veiga SS(1), Chaim OM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Federal University of Paraná, Curitiba, Paraná, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Cell Biology, Federal University of Paraná, Curitiba, Paraná, 
Brazil; Department of Clinical Pathology, Clinics Hospital, Federal University 
of Paraná, Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.
(4)Department of Cell Biology, Federal University of Paraná, Curitiba, Paraná, 
Brazil; Catholic University of Paraná, Health and Biological Sciences Institute, 
Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.
(5)Department of Cell Biology, Federal University of Paraná, Curitiba, Paraná, 
Brazil. Electronic address: olgachaim@ufpr.br.

Loxosceles spiders' venom comprises a complex mixture of biologically active 
toxins, mostly consisting of low molecular mass components (2-40 kDa). Amongst, 
isoforms of astacin-like metalloproteases were identified through transcriptome 
and proteome analyses. Only LALP1 (Loxosceles Astacin-Like protease 1) has been 
characterized. Herein, we characterized LALP3 as a novel recombinant 
astacin-like metalloprotease isoform from Loxosceles intermedia venom. LALP3 
cDNA was cloned in pET-SUMO vector, and its soluble heterologous expression was 
performed using a SUMO tag added to LALP3 to achieve solubility in Escherichia 
coli SHuffle T7 Express LysY cells, which express the disulfide bond isomerase 
DsbC. Protein purification was conducted by Ni-NTA Agarose resin and assayed for 
purity by SDS-PAGE under reducing conditions. Immunoblotting analyses were 
performed with specific antibodies recognizing LALP1 and whole venom. Western 
blotting showed linear epitopes from recombinant LALP3 that cross-reacted with 
LALP1, and dot blotting revealed conformational epitopes with native venom 
astacins. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed that the recombinant expressed 
protein is an astacin-like metalloprotease from L. intermedia venom. 
Furthermore, molecular modeling of LALP3 revealed that this isoform contains the 
zinc binding and Met-turn motifs, forming the active site, as has been observed 
in astacins. These data confirmed that LALP3, which was successfully obtained by 
heterologous expression using a prokaryote system, is a new astacin-like 
metalloprotease isoform present in L. intermedia venom.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie 
Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2016.06.003
PMID: 27343628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. PLoS One. 2015 May 4;10(5):e0126121. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126121. 
eCollection 2015.

Recognition of Linear B-Cell Epitope of Betanodavirus Coat Protein by RG-M18 
Neutralizing mAB Inhibits Giant Grouper Nervous Necrosis Virus (GGNNV) 
Infection.

Chen CW(1), Wu MS(2), Huang YJ(2), Cheng CA(3), Chang CY(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Institute of Fisheries Science, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(3)Department of Food Science, National Quemoy University, Kinmen, Taiwan.

Betanodavirus is a causative agent of viral nervous necrosis syndrome in many 
important aquaculture marine fish larvae, resulting in high global mortality. 
The coat protein of Betanodavirus is the sole structural protein, and it can 
assemble the virion particle by itself. In this study, we used a high-titer 
neutralizing mAB, RG-M18, to identify the linear B-cell epitope on the viral 
coat protein. By mapping a series of recombinant proteins generated using the E. 
coli PET expression system, we demonstrated that the linear epitope recognized 
by RG-M18 is located at the C-terminus of the coat protein, between amino acid 
residues 195 and 338. To define the minimal epitope region, a set of overlapping 
peptides were synthesized and evaluated for RG-M18 binding. Such analysis 
identified the 195VNVSVLCR202 motif as the minimal epitope. Comparative analysis 
of Alanine scanning mutagenesis with dot-blotting and ELISA revealed that 
Valine197, Valine199, and Cysteine201 are critical for antibody binding. 
Substitution of Leucine200 in the RGNNV, BFNNV, and TPNNV genotypes with 
Methionine200 (thereby simulating the SJNNV genotype) did not affect binding 
affinity, implying that RG-M18 can recognize all genotypes of Betanodaviruses. 
In competition experiments, synthetic multiple antigen peptides of this epitope 
dramatically suppressed giant grouper nervous necrosis virus (GGNNV) propagation 
in grouper brain cells. The data provide new insights into the protective 
mechanism of this neutralizing mAB, with broader implications for Betanodavirus 
vaccinology and antiviral peptide drug development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126121
PMCID: PMC4418827
PMID: 25938761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1329. Gene. 2014 May 25;542(1):69-76. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.02.016. Epub 2014 Feb 
15.

Prokaryotic overexpression of TEV-rhGH and characterization of its polyclonal 
antibody.

Murad H(1), Ali B(1), Makeya R(1), Abbady AQ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Atomic Energy Commission 
of Syria (AECS), P.O. Box 6091, Damascus, Syria.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Atomic Energy Commission 
of Syria (AECS), P.O. Box 6091, Damascus, Syria. Electronic address: 
ascientific@aec.org.sy.

Recombinant protein technology represents one of the best solutions to achieve 
rapid, efficient, and cost-effective protein expression and purification of 
therapeutic proteins. Growth hormone (GH) is an excellent example of these 
proteins used in the therapy of hormone deficiencies. In this work, a plasmid, 
pRSET-TEV-rhGH, has been constructed to overexpress recombinant human GH (rhGH) 
by cloning its gene downstream of an N-terminal 6 × His-tagged polypeptide (43 
aa) in the T7 promoter-plasmid pRSET. This polypeptide was cleavable by means of 
the integrated recognition site for the tobaccos etch virus (TEV) protease, 
resulting in an rhGH protein at an exact length and sequence. After IPTG 
induction, this plasmid effectively expressed TEV-rhGH protein (27 kDa) in the 
cytoplasm of Escherichia coli, which accumulated in the form of inclusion 
bodies. The 6 × His-tagged protein, with a yield of ~150 mg/L of culture, was 
purified from the cell extract using metal affinity chromatography, as shown 
after SDS-PAGE blue staining, and was confirmed by immunoblotting using specific 
commercial monoclonal antibodies. In order to detect TEV-rhGH, in ELISA and 
immunoblotting, specific polyclonal antibody, with high titer (~10⁻⁵ fold 
dilution), was produced in a rabbit and purified using affinity chromatography. 
Preliminary tests have proved that TEV-rhGH protein and its specific purified 
IgG antibody could provide valuable tools for rhGH productive and diagnostic 
purposes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.02.016
PMID: 24534464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2009 Aug;25(8):1166-72.

[Soluble expression, purification and immunoreactive identification of mouse 
zona pellucida 3 fusion protein].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun M(1), Ma Z, Li Y, Lü T, Chen K, Zhang F.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering, College of 
Life Science and Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumchi 830046, China.

Mammalian zona pellucida 3(ZP3) plays an important role in the induction of 
capacitating sperm acrosome reaction. In this study, we obtained the soluble 
mZP3 fusion protein and identified its immunoreactivity. mZP3 cDNA was cloned 
into plasmid pMAL-p2x, and the recombinant plasmid was transformed into 
Escherichia coli BL21. To get the soluble mZP3 fusion protein, we tried to 
optimize the expression conditions, including additives, IPTG concentrations, 
temperatures and induction duration. Then, Western blotting and ELISA were used 
to identify the immunoreactivity of the purified protein. Based on the 
optimization experiments, we concluded that the best soluble expression 
conditions for the mZP3 fusion protein involved incubation to an A600 of 0.6, 
addition of glucose to a final concentration of 0.02 mol/L, addition of IPTG to 
a final concentration of 0.6 mmol/L and then further incubation for 4 h at 25 
degrees C. Western blotting and ELISA showed that the mZP3 fusion protein 
retained immunoreactivity. The fusion protein can be used as solubility antigens 
for developing the immunocontraception vaccines of mZP3 and detecting the immune 
effects of the vaccine.

PMID: 19938453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. J Biotechnol. 2021 Mar 10;329:143-150. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.12.013. Epub 
2020 Dec 26.

Inducible plasmid display system for high-throughput selection of proteins with 
improved solubility.

Kim C(1), Park M(1), Yang J(1), Shin J(1), Park YC(2), Kim SK(3), Kweon DH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biotechnology, College of Biotechnology and 
Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoburo 2066, Suwon, Gyeonggi, 16419, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Bio and Fermentation Convergence Technology, Kookmin 
University, Seoul, 02707, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong, 
Gyeonggi, 17546, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: skkim18@cau.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Integrative Biotechnology, College of Biotechnology and 
Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoburo 2066, Suwon, Gyeonggi, 16419, 
Republic of Korea; Biomedical Institute for Convergence, Sungkyunkwan 
University, Suwon, 16419, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
dhkweon@skku.edu.

Soluble expression of enzymes inside the cell is a prerequisite for the 
successful biotransformation of valuable products. Some key enzymes involved in 
biotransformation processes, however, are hardly expressed in their soluble 
forms. Here, we propose an inducible plasmid display, which is a molecular 
evolution strategy coupled with a high-throughput screening and/or selection 
method, as a simple and powerful tool for improving the solubility of target 
enzymes. Specifically, the Oct-1 DNA-binding domain and intein (i.e., 
auto-processing domain) were employed as anchoring and protein trans-splicing 
motifs to develop the system, in which the probability of protein trans-splicing 
is dependent on the soluble property of target proteins. The applicability of 
inducible plasmid display was investigated using an α-1,2-fucosyltransferase 
(FucT2) from Helicobacter pylori, a highly insoluble and unstable enzyme in the 
cytoplasmic space of Escherichia coli, as a model protein. One round of the 
overall inducible plasmid display process, which consists of in vivo production 
of FucT2 mutants and in vitro screening, enabled soluble expression of FucT2 and 
selection of plasmids containing the corresponding genetic information. The 
inducible plasmid display developed in this study will contribute to the rapid 
and efficient screening and/or selection of soluble proteins.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.12.013
PMID: 33373627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Protein Sci. 2009 Jul;18(7):1377-87. doi: 10.1002/pro.157.

Fusion order controls expression level and activity of elastin-like polypeptide 
fusion proteins.

Christensen T(1), Amiram M, Dagher S, Trabbic-Carlson K, Shamji MF, Setton LA, 
Chilkoti A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
27708, USA.

We have previously developed a method to purify recombinant proteins, termed 
inverse transition cycling (ITC) that eliminates the need for column 
chromatography. ITC exploits the inverse solubility phase transition of an 
elastin-like polypeptide (ELP) that is fused to a protein of interest. In ITC, a 
recombinant ELP fusion protein is cycled through its phase transition, resulting 
in separation of the ELP fusion protein from other Escherichia coli 
contaminants. Herein, we examine the role of the position of the ELP in the 
fusion protein on the expression levels and yields of purified protein for four 
recombinant ELP fusion proteins. Placing the ELP at the C-terminus of the target 
protein (protein-ELP) results in a higher expression level for the four ELP 
fusion proteins, which also translates to a greater yield of purified protein. 
The position of the fusion protein also has a significant impact on its specific 
activity, as ELP-protein constructs have a lower specific activity than 
protein-ELP constructs for three out of the four proteins. Our results show no 
difference in mRNA levels between protein-ELP and ELP-protein fusion constructs. 
Instead, we suggest two possible explanations for these results: first, the 
translational efficiency of mRNA may differ between the fusion protein in the 
two orientations and second, the lower level of protein expression and lower 
specific activity is consistent with a scenario that placement of the ELP at the 
N-terminus of the fusion protein increases the fraction of misfolded, and less 
active conformers, which are also preferentially degraded compared to fusion 
proteins in which the ELP is present at the C-terminal end of the protein.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.157
PMCID: PMC2775208
PMID: 19533768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jun;104(12):5337-5345. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-020-10622-y. Epub 2020 Apr 22.

High-level production of industrially relevant oxidases by a two-stage fed-batch 
approach: overcoming catabolite repression in arabinose-inducible Escherichia 
coli systems.

Román R(1), Lončar N(2), Casablancas A(3), Fraaije MW(4), Gonzalez G(3).

Author information:
(1)Fermentation Pilot Plant, Department of Chemical, Biological and Enviromental 
Engineering, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain. 
ramon.roman@uab.cat.
(2)GECCO Biotech B.V, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Fermentation Pilot Plant, Department of Chemical, Biological and Enviromental 
Engineering, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Spain.
(4)Molecular Enzymology group, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

With the growing interest in enzyme applications, there is an urgent demand for 
economic, affordable, and flexible enzyme production processes. In the present 
paper, we developed a high cell density fed-batch process for the production of 
two cofactor-containing oxidase, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidase (HMFO) and 
eugenol oxidase (EUGO). The approach involved the arabinose-inducible system to 
drive the expression while using mineral media. In order to overcome a major 
drawback of arabinose-inducible promoters, carbon catabolite repression, (CCR) 
by glucose, we developed a high cell density culture (HCDC), two-stage fed-batch 
protocol allowing us to reach cell densities exceeding 70 g/L of dry cell weight 
(DCW) using glucose as carbon source. Then, induction was achieved by adding 
arabinose, while changing the carbon source to glycerol. This strategy allowed 
us to obtain an eightfold increase in recombinant HMFO titer when compared with 
a reference batch fermentation in Erlenmeyer flasks using terrific broth (TB), 
typically used with arabinose-inducible strains. The optimized protocol was also 
tested for expression of a structurally unrelated oxidase, EUGO, where a similar 
yield was achieved. Clearly, this two-step protocol in which a relatively cheap 
medium (when compared to TB) can be used reduces costs and provides a way to 
obtain protein production levels similar to those of IPTG-based systems. KEY 
POINTS: • Arabinose promoters are not well suited for HCDC production due to CCR 
effect. • This drawback has been overcome by using a two-stage Fed-batch 
protocol. • Protein yield has been increased by an eightfold factor, improving 
process economics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10622-y
PMID: 32322946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Metab Eng. 2015 Jul;30:156-165. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2015.06.003. Epub 2015 Jun 
19.

Metabolic engineering of Corynebacterium glutamicum for the production of 
itaconate.

Otten A(1), Brocker M(2), Bott M(3).

Author information:
(1)IBG-1: Biotechnology, Institute of Bio- and Geosciences, Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany.
(2)IBG-1: Biotechnology, Institute of Bio- and Geosciences, Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany. Electronic address: m.brocker@fz-juelich.de.
(3)IBG-1: Biotechnology, Institute of Bio- and Geosciences, Forschungszentrum 
Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany. Electronic address: m.bott@fz-juelich.de.

The capability of Corynebacterium glutamicum for glucose-based synthesis of 
itaconate was explored, which can serve as building block for production of 
polymers, chemicals, and fuels. C. glutamicum was highly tolerant to itaconate 
and did not metabolize it. Expression of the Aspergillus terreus CAD1 gene 
encoding cis-aconitate decarboxylase (CAD) in strain ATCC13032 led to the 
production of 1.4mM itaconate in the stationary growth phase. Fusion of CAD with 
the Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein increased its activity and the 
itaconate titer more than two-fold. Nitrogen-limited growth conditions boosted 
CAD activity and itaconate titer about 10-fold to values of 1440 mU mg(-1) and 
30 mM. Reduction of isocitrate dehydrogenase activity via exchange of the ATG 
start codon to GTG or TTG resulted in maximal itaconate titers of 60 mM (7.8 g 
l(-1)), a molar yield of 0.4 mol mol(-1), and a volumetric productivity of 2.1 
mmol l(-1) h(-1).

Copyright © 2015 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2015.06.003
PMID: 26100077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Dec;104:71-84. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.09.004. Epub 
2014 Sep 16.

Trigger factor assisted folding of the recombinant epoxide hydrolases identified 
from C. pelagibacter and S. nassauensis.

Saini P(1), Wani SI(2), Kumar R(3), Chhabra R(4), Chimni SS(5), Sareen D(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Panjab University, Sector 14, Chandigarh 160 014, 
India. Electronic address: 27priyasaini@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Panjab University, Sector 14, Chandigarh 160 014, 
India. Electronic address: shahdil.wani@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Panjab University, Sector 14, Chandigarh 160 014, 
India. Electronic address: ranjai.pu@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Panjab University, Sector 14, Chandigarh 160 014, 
India. Electronic address: chhabra.ravneet9@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar 143 005, Punjab, 
India. Electronic address: sschimni@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Panjab University, Sector 14, Chandigarh 160 014, 
India. Electronic address: diptsare@pu.ac.in.

Erratum in
    Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Aug;112:50.

Epoxide hydrolases (EHs), are enantioselective enzymes as they catalyze the 
kinetic resolution of racemic epoxides into the corresponding enantiopure 
vicinal diols, which are useful precursors in the synthesis of chiral 
pharmaceutical compounds. Here, we have identified and cloned two putative 
epoxide hydrolase genes (cpeh and sneh) from marine bacteria, Candidatus 
pelagibacter ubique and terrestrial bacteria, Stackebrandtia nassauensis, 
respectively and overexpressed them in pET28a vector in Escherichia coli 
BL21(DE3). The CPEH protein (42kDa) was found to be overexpressed as inactive 
inclusion bodies while SNEH protein (40kDa) was found to form soluble 
aggregates. In this study, the recombinant CPEH was successfully transformed 
from insoluble aggregates to the soluble and functionally active form, using 
pCold TF vector, though with low EH activity. To prevent the soluble aggregate 
formation of SNEH, it was co-expressed with GroEL/ES chaperone and was also 
fused with trigger factor (TF) chaperone at its N-terminus. The TF 
chaperone-assisted correct folding of SNEH led to a purified active EH with a 
specific activity of 3.85μmol/min/mg. The pure enzyme was further used to 
biocatalyze the hydrolysis of 10mM benzyl glycidyl ether (BGE) and α-methyl 
styrene oxide (MSO) with an enantiomeric excess of the product (eep) of 86% and 
73% in 30 and 15min, respectively. In conclusion, this is the first report about 
the heterologous expression of epoxide hydrolases using TF as a molecular 
chaperone in pCold TF expression vector, resulting in remarkable increase in the 
solubility and activity of the otherwise improperly folded recombinant epoxide 
hydrolases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.09.004
PMID: 25229949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2014 Nov-Dec;48(6):908-14. doi: 10.7868/s0026898414060123.

[The gene expression of the protein SLAWD, mediating the toxic effect of 
destruxin A on Spodoptera litura larvae, in procaryotic cells: purification and 
characterization].

[Article in Russian]

Meng X, Li LM, Gao G, Jin FL, Ren SX.

Spodoptera litura is one of the most destructive phytophagous pest infesting 
cotton, vegetable, oilseed and ber crops around the world. Dextruxin A (DA), is 
a one of a kind microbial insecticide, which has potent toxins with bioactivity 
against S. litura larvae. An abnormal wing disc (AWD) protein was identified as 
a DA toxic effect protein in S. litura SL-1 cells. To better understand the role 
of the AWD gene of S. litura (SLAWD) it was purified and characterized. The 
entire coding region of the SLAWD gene was cloned into a pET-32a(+) expression 
vector and transformed into competent Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells. 
SDS-PAGE and western blotting analysis and western blotting showed that the best 
induction conditions were 1 mmol mL(-1) isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside 
(IPTG) for 6 h at 37°C; the molecular weight of the fusion protein was 35.0 kDa. 
The production of polyclonal antibodies and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) showed that the titer of antiserum was 1:25,600; western blotting 
analysis showed that the recombinant SLAWD was recognized by the anti-SLAWD 
polyclonal antibody. AWD is a key protein involved in wing development in 
insects. These tools will assist in the further characterization of SLAWD and 
studies on the mechanism of action of destruxin A.

DOI: 10.7868/s0026898414060123
PMID: 25845231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. J Virol. 2004 Jul;78(13):7004-15. doi: 10.1128/JVI.78.13.7004-7015.2004.

Production of high-titer Epstein-Barr virus recombinants derived from Akata 
cells by using a bacterial artificial chromosome system.

Kanda T(1), Yajima M, Ahsan N, Tanaka M, Takada K.

Author information:
(1)Center for Virus Vector Development, Institute for Genetic Medicine, Hokkaido 
University, N15 W7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-0815, Japan. tkanda@igm.hokudai.ac.jp

An Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome in Burkitt's lymphoma-derived cell line Akata 
was cloned into a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) vector. The BAC clone, 
designated AK-BAC, was rapidly and precisely modified by means of efficient 
homologous recombination in Escherichia coli. This system was used to produce 
recombinant EBVs with transgenes. An expression cassette of green fluorescent 
protein (GFP) was inserted into AK-BAC, and the resultant BAC clone, AK-BAC-GFP, 
was transfected into Akata cells. We found that transfected BAC plasmids 
efficiently formed episomes in EBV-positive Akata cells. Mixtures of wild-type 
and AK-BAC-GFP viruses were then produced and used to infect EBV-negative Akata 
cells. We obtained cell clones that harbored only AK-BAC-GFP but no wild-type 
episome. These cell clones produced infectious viruses after stimulating virus 
production, and the recombinant viruses of AK-BAC-GFP efficiently immortalized 
primary B lymphocytes. We further revised the method so that any kind of cDNA 
could be rapidly inserted into the unique I-PpoI site that had been artificially 
introduced into AK-BAC. The AK-BAC system will have a broad range of 
applications, such as genetic analyses of various viral gene products and 
development of viral vectors for human gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.78.13.7004-7015.2004
PMCID: PMC421639
PMID: 15194777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 Mar 15;8(3):474-481. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00486. Epub 
2019 Feb 8.

An Automated Data-Driven Pipeline for Improving Heterologous Enzyme Expression.

Wrenbeck EE, Bedewitz MA, Klesmith JR, Noshin S(1), Barry CS, Whitehead TA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering , University of Virginia , 
Charlottesville , Virginia 22903 , United States.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering , University of Colorado , 
Boulder , Colorado 80305 , United States.

Enzymes are the ultimate entities responsible for chemical transformations in 
natural and engineered biosynthetic pathways. However, many natural enzymes 
suffer from suboptimal functional expression due to poor intrinsic protein 
stability. Further, stability enhancing mutations often come at the cost of 
impaired function. Here we demonstrate an automated protein engineering strategy 
for stabilizing enzymes while retaining catalytic function using deep mutational 
scanning coupled to multiple-filter based screening and combinatorial 
mutagenesis. We validated this strategy by improving the functional expression 
of a Type III polyketide synthase from the Atropa belladonna biosynthetic 
pathway for tropane alkaloids. The best variant had a total of 8 mutations with 
over 25-fold improved activity over wild-type in E. coli cell lysates, an 
improved melting temperature of 11.5 ± 0.6 °C, and only minimal reduction in 
catalytic efficiency. We show that the multiple-filter approach maintains 
acceptable sensitivity with homology modeling structures up to 4 Å RMS. Our 
results highlight an automated protein engineering tool for improving the 
stability and solubility of difficult to express enzymes, which has impact for 
biotechnological applications.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.8b00486
PMCID: PMC6855305
PMID: 30721031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Vaccine. 2006 Apr 12;24(16):3374-80. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.12.068. Epub 
2006 Feb 23.

Construction and immunogenicity of recombinant adenovirus expressing the capsid 
protein of porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) in mice.

Wang X(1), Jiang W, Jiang P, Li Y, Feng Z, Xu J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Diseases Diagnostic and Immunology, Ministry of 
Agriculture, College of Veterinary Medicine, Nanjing Agriculture University, 
Nanjing 210095, China.

Porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) has been implicated as the etiological agent of some 
diseases, mainly postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS) and porcine 
dermatitis and nephropathy syndrome (PDNS). The capsid (Cap) protein encoded by 
the PCV2 ORF2 gene may be an excellent candidate for vaccination. In this study, 
the Cap protein gene was amplified by PCR, and cloned into the transfer vector 
pShuttle-CMV. After co-transformation of PmeI-linearized recombinant plasmid 
pShuttle-CMV-ORF2 and the bone vector pAdEasy-1 into Escherichia coli bacteria 
strain BJ5183, recombinant plasmid containing Cap protein gene (pAd-ORF2) was 
obtained and identified with PCR. Upon transfection of PacI-linearized plasmid 
pAd-ORF2 in 293 cell line, a recombinant adenovirus was obtained and named as 
rAd-Cap with viral titer of 10(13.0) TCID(50)/ml. The expression of the Cap 
protein in the 293 cells infected with rAd-Cap was confirmed with specific 
antibody to PCV2 by Western blotting and IPMA. Mice were inoculated with 10(8), 
10(10) and 10(12) TCID(50)/mouse of rAd-Cap and boosted 2 weeks later, and they 
could generate antibody against PCV2 detected by indirect ELISA, Western blot 
and neutralizing activity assay. It indicated that the rAd-Cap was able to 
express the capsid of PCV2 and could elicit immune responses against the PCV2 in 
mice. The recombinant adenovirus might be an attractive candidate vaccine for 
preventing the disease associated with PCV2 infection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2005.12.068
PMID: 16524646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2003 Jun;25(3):312-5.

[Efficient generation of recombinant adenoviruses expressing antiangiogenic 
fragment of human thrombospondin1].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu P(1), Wang Y, Yang RC, Gu J, Cai YL, Han ZC.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Institute of Hematology, 
Blood Diseases Hospital, CAMS, PUMC, Tianjin 300020, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct recombinant adenoviruses expressing antiangiogenic 
fragment of human thrombospondin1 (TSP1f).
METHODS: TSP1f cDNA was amplified by RT-PCR from normal human peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells and was subcloned into a shuttle vector pShuttle-CMV. After 
sequence confirmation, the resultant plasmid was linearized by the restriction 
endonuclease Pme I and cotransformed with the supercoiled adenoviral vector 
pAdEasy-1 into Escherichia coli strain BJ5183. Recombinants were selected by 
Kanamycin resistance and screened by restriction endonuclease digestion. Then, 
the recombinant adenoviral construct was cleaved with Pac I and transfected into 
the packaging cell line 293. The adenoviral vector ADV-TSP1f was propagated in 
293 cells and purified by cesium chloride (CsCl) density centrifugation. PCR and 
Western blot analysis were performed to confirm TSP1f expression.
RESULTS: Of 43 Kanamycin-resistant colonies obtained from cotransformation, all 
of the 10 smallest ones were the correct recombinants. TSP-1f was expressed 
efficiently by ADV-TSP1f. The virus stock titer after CsCl banding was 1.0 x 
10(11) pfu/mL.
CONCLUSIONS: Generating recombinant adenoviruses using AdEasy System results in 
highly efficient viral production and significantly decrease the time required 
to construct usable viruses. ADV-TSP1f can be further used in in vivo gene 
therapy studies.

PMID: 12905746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Microb Pathog. 2021 Dec;161(Pt B):105291. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2021.105291. 
Epub 2021 Nov 17.

Anti-Omp34 antibodies protect against Acinetobacter baumannii in a murine sepsis 
model.

Naghipour Erami A(1), Rasooli I(2), Jahangiri A(3), Darvish Alipour Astaneh 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran-Qom Express Way, Iran. 
Electronic address: a.naghipour2014@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran-Qom Express Way, Iran; 
Molecular Microbiology Research Center, Shahed University, Tehran-Qom Express 
Way, Iran. Electronic address: rasooli@shahed.ac.ir.
(3)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings 
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic 
address: jahangiri.fazel@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Semnan University, Semnan, Iran. Electronic 
address: darvishalipour@semnan.ac.ir.

Acinetobacter baumannii, an opportunistic extracellular pathogen is one of the 
major causes of nosocomial infections. Omp34, also known as Omp33-36, is a 
bacterial porin protein involved in the virulence and fitness of this pathogen 
by adhesion to the host cell. This antigen nominated as an appropriate candidate 
for immunization against A. baumannii. In this study, the expression of the 
recombinant Omp34 (rOmp34) was carried out in E. coli BL21 (DE3). The 
immunogenicity of the rOmp34 in A. baumannii was studied in a murine sepsis 
model. Antibody response in mice injected with the recombinant protein was 
assessed using indirect ELISA. Bactericidal activity of rOmp34-immunized mice 
sera (1:10 dilution) against A. baumannii ATCC 19606 after 0, 1, 2, 4, and 8 h 
of incubation at 37 °C was assessed. In addition to survival rate, load of 
bacteria in liver and spleen of the infected mice were evaluated. A high titer 
of specific antibody equivalent to optical density of 1.54 ± 0.06 against rOmp34 
was elicited in the immunized mice sera. Viability of the A. baumannii incubated 
8 h with immunized mice sera was 64%. Homogenized liver and spleen samples of 
the control mice challenged with A. baumannii were loaded with 8 × 103 and 
9 × 103 CFU per gram tissue respectively 48 h post-challenge as against complete 
clearance of A. baumannii in the immunized group. The protective immunity was 
achieved by challenging the mice groups with 5 × LD50 of live A. baumannii. 
Omp34 can be nominated as an immunogen that can bring about protection against 
Acinetobacter baumannii.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2021.105291
PMID: 34798280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. Protein Expr Purif. 2017 Apr;132:138-142. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.02.001. Epub 
2017 Feb 3.

Purification and characterization of human dehydrodolychil diphosphate synthase 
(DHDDS) overexpressed in E. coli.

Giladi M(1), Edri I(2), Goldenberg M(2), Newman H(3), Strulovich R(4), 
Khananshvili D(4), Haitin Y(5), Loewenstein A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, 
Israel. Electronic address: moshegil@post.tau.ac.il.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; 
Department of Ophthalmology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(5)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Electronic address: yhaitin@post.tau.ac.il.

Protein asparagine (N)-linked glycosylation is a post-translational modification 
that occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum; it plays an important role in protein 
folding, oligomerization, quality control, sorting, and transport. Accordingly, 
disorders of glycosylation may affect practically every organ system. 
Dehydrodolichyl diphosphate synthase (DHDDS) is an eukaryotic cis 
prenyltransferase (cis-PT) that catalyzes chain elongation of farnesyl 
diphosphate via multiple condensations with isopentenyl diphosphate to form 
dehydrodolichyl diphosphate, a precursor for the glycosyl carrier 
dolichylpyrophophate involved in N-linked glycosylation. Mutations in DHDDS were 
shown to result in retinitis pigmentosa, ultimately leading to blindness, but 
the exact molecular mechanism by which the mutations affect DHDDS function 
remains elusive. In addition, bacterial cis-PT homologs are involved in 
bacterial wall synthesis and are therefore potential targets for new 
antibacterial agents. However, as eukaryotic cis-PT were not thoroughly 
characterized structurally and functionally, rational design of prokaryotic 
cis-PT specific drugs is currently impossible. Here, we present a simple 
protocol for purification of functionally active human DHDDS under 
non-denaturating conditions using a codon-optimized construct. The purified 
protein forms a stable homodimer, similar to its bacterial homologs, and shows 
time- and substrate-dependent activity. Purification of this protein requires 
the presence of a detergent for protein solubility. The protocol described here 
may be utilized for the overexpression of other eukaryotic cis-PT. Future 
structural and functional studies of the recombinant DHDDS may shed light on the 
mechanisms underlying DHDDS-related retinitis pigmentosa and lead to novel 
therapeutic approaches.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2017.02.001
PMID: 28167250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1343. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 Nov;80(1):61-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.07.003. Epub 
2011 Jul 23.

The anti-cancer activity of human consensus interferon-alpha synthesized in 
cell-free system.

El-Baky NA(1), Omar SH, Redwan EM.

Author information:
(1)Antibody Laboratory, Protein Research Department, Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology Research Institute, City for Scientific Research and Technology 
Applications, New Borg EL-Arab 21934, Alexandria, Egypt.

The cell-free method is suitable for rapid and economical production of 
therapeutic proteins, since it is an open system, which allows us to control the 
reaction microenvironment to promote folding, solubility of proteins and 
maximize the protein yield. Consensus interferon is a newly developed type I 
interferon, a rapid-acting version of interferon that appears more potent than 
the currently approved pegylated version. Our work aimed to synthesize human 
consensus interferon-alpha (cIFN-α) in cell-free protein expression system of 
Escherichia coli cells origin. The cloned cIFN-α gene in pET101/D-TOPO 
expression system was used in cell-free IFN production. The system was tested by 
using a standard construct, GFP (green fluorescent protein) gene was cloned into 
pIVEX2.3 vector; this gene and our gene, both are under the T7 promoter 
transcriptional control. The synthesis of active cIFN-α gradually increased from 
2 to 6 h of the reaction, also reducing the temperature of incubation to ≤ 30°C 
maximized its solubility. After purification on nickel-nitrilotriacetate acid 
(Ni-NTA) resin, the yield of cIFN-α was 400 μg/ml cell-free reaction solution. 
The resultant cIFN-α was fully biologically active as demonstrated by its 
anti-cancer effect and immunoassay signals.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2011.07.003
PMID: 21802515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;27(10):1098-102.

[Monoclonal antibody preparation and identification of vascular endothelial 
growth factor 165 expressed in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Kong GM(1), Zhang XR, Diao YL, Wu KY, Liu QY, Bo P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Medical School of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou, China. gmkong@yzu.edu.cn

AIM: To prepare a monoclonal antibody against human vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF165), for further study the VEGF165 in the tumorigenesis, tumor cell 
migration and the tumor cells escape from the immune response.
METHODS: VEGF165 gene was cloned from the human umbilical vein endothelial cells 
(HUVEC) by RT-PCR, and then cloned into the pGEX-6P1, constructed the 
prokaryotic expression of pGEX-6P1-VEGF165. The fusion -protein of VEGF165 was 
expressed in E.coli (BL21) induced by the 1.0 mmol/L IPTG at 37DegreesCelsius 
after 4 h. The fusion-protein was purified by the MicroSpin GST purification kit 
for immunized the BALB/c mouse. The monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the 
VEGF165 were prepared by hybridoma technique, and ELISA and Western blot 
identified their immunoglobulin subclass and specificity. And we used the 
inhibition the embryo angiogenesis assay, inhibition the HUVEC migration assay 
and inhibition the HUVEC tubule information assay to study the bioactivity of 
the mAbs of VEGF165.
RESULTS: The sequence of the VEGF165 is agreed to the GenBank, and we obtained 
five species VEGF165 mAbs, and the titer of the antibody is high, and we named, 
they are 5A6, 3F5, 6H3, 7D10 and 7A10. Our study showed that the 5A6, 3F5, 6H3, 
7D10 were classified to IgG2a, 7A10 was classified to IgG2b, and the light chain 
is k.Meanwhile the purified mAbs inhibited formation of chicken embryo blood 
vessels, and inhibited tubule formation of the HUVEC and inhibited migration of 
the HUVEC.
CONCLUSION: mAbs against human VEGF165 have the effective bioactivity, which 
would play a significant role for further study the mechanism of VEGF165.

PMID: 21968312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. J Biochem Mol Biol. 2002 May 31;35(3):330-6. doi: 10.5483/bmbrep.2002.35.3.330.

Expression and characterization of beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase from Neisseria 
meningitidis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae.

Park JE(1), Lee KY, Do SI, Lee SS.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Bio-Medicinal Resources and Division of Life Science, Pai 
Chai University, 439-6 Doma-dong, Seo-gu, Taejon 302-735, Korea.

The lgtB genes that encode beta-1,4-galactosyltransferases from Neisseria 
meningitidis ATCC 13102 and gonorrhoeae ATCC 31151 were isolated by a polymerase 
chain reaction using the pfu DNA polymerase. They were expressed under the 
control of lac and T7 promoters in Escherichia coli M15 and BL21 (DE3). Although 
the genes were efficiently expressed in E. coli M15 at 37 degrees C (33 kDa), 
most of the beta-1,4-galactosyltransferases that were produced were insoluble 
and proteolysed into enzymatically inactive polypeptides that lacked C-terminal 
residues (29.5 kDa and 28 kDa) during the purification steps. When the 
temperature of the cell growth was lowered to 25 degrees C, however, the 
solubility of the beta-1,4-galactosyltransferases increased substantially. A 
stable N-terminal his-tagged recombinant enzyme preparation could be achieved 
with E. coli BL21 (DE3) that expressed lgtB. Therefore, the cloned 
beta-1,4-galactosyltransferases were expressed under the control of the T7 
promoter in E. coli BL21 (DE3), mostly to the soluble form at 25 degrees C. The 
proteins were easily purified to homogeneity by column chromatography using 
Ni-NTA resin, and were found to be active. The galactosyltransferases exhibited 
pH optimum at 6.5-7.0, and had an essential requirement for the Mn(+2) ions for 
its action. The Mg(+2) and Ca(+2) ions showed about half of the 
galactosyltransferase activities with the Mn(+2) ion. In the presence of the 
Fe(+2) ion, partial activation was observed with the 
beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase from N. meningitidis (64% of the enzyme activity 
with the Mn(+2) ion), but not from N. gonorrhoeae. On the other hand, the N(+2), 
Zn(+2), and Cu(+2) ions could not activate the beta-1,4- galactosyltransferase 
activity. The inhibited enzyme activity with the Ni(+2) ion was partially 
recovered with the Mn(+2) ion, but in the presence of the Fe(+2), Zn(+2), and 
Cu(+2) ions, the Mn(+2) ion could not activate the enzyme activities. Also, the 
beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase activity was 1.5-fold stimulated with the 
non-ionic detergent Triton X-100 (0.1-5 percent).

DOI: 10.5483/bmbrep.2002.35.3.330
PMID: 12297017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. BMC Vet Res. 2019 Dec 10;15(1):447. doi: 10.1186/s12917-019-2192-2.

A novel Bursin-like peptide as a potential virus inhibitor and immunity 
regulator in SPF chickens infected with recombinant ALV.

Zeng Y(1)(2)(3), Gong Z(1)(2), Wu B(1)(2), Guan W(1)(2), Yu S(3), An Y(1)(2), Lu 
R(1)(2), Zhao J(1)(2), Wu Y(1)(2), Huang Y(1)(2), Wu X(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science, Fujian Agricultural and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou, 350002, People's Republic of China.
(2)Fujian Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Veterinary Medicine and Animal 
Health, Fujian Agricultural and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 350002, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 350004, 
People's Republic of China.
(4)College of Animal Science, Fujian Agricultural and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou, 350002, People's Republic of China. wxp19781015@163.com.
(5)Fujian Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Veterinary Medicine and Animal 
Health, Fujian Agricultural and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 350002, People's 
Republic of China. wxp19781015@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Avian leukosis viruses (ALVs) are important contagious suppressive 
factors of chicken immunity and growth performance, resulted in enormous 
economic loss. Although virus eradication programs are applied in breeder 
flocks, ALVs are still widespread globally. Therefore, other valuable adjunct to 
reduce the negative effect of ALVs should be considered. Bursin-like peptide 
(BLP) showed remarkable immunomodulatory effects, whereas their influence on 
ALV-infected avian groups has not been reported. Here, a designed hybrid BLP was 
expressed in E. coli. The purified BLP was injected subcutaneously weekly in SPF 
chickens congenitally infected with a natural ALV strain. Then the influences of 
this BLP on the growth performance, immune response and virus titer of 
ALV-infected chickens were determined.
RESULTS: This BLP injection significantly improved the body weights of 
ALV-infected birds (P < 0.05). BLP injection significantly enhanced organ index 
in the BF in ALV-infected birds (P < 0.05). The weekly injection of BLP 
significantly lengthened the maintenance time of antibodies against Newcastle 
disease virus (NDV) attenuated vaccine of ALV-infected birds (P < 0.05) and 
boosted the antibody titer against avian influenza virus (AIV) H5 inactive 
vaccine of mock chicken (P < 0.05). BLP injection in mock chickens enhanced the 
levels of serum cytokines (IL-2, IL-4 and interferon-γ) (P < 0.05). 
Surprisingly, the novel BLP significantly inhibited expression of the ALV gp85 
gene in the thymus (P < 0.05), kidney (P < 0.05) and bursa of Fabricius (BF) 
(P < 0.01) of ALV-infected chickens. Both viral RNA copy number and protein 
level decreased significantly with BLP (50 μg/mL) inoculation before ALV 
infection in DF1 cells (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report investigating the influence of BLP on the 
growth and immunity performance of chickens infected by ALV. It also is the 
first report about the antiviral effect of BLP in vivo and in vitro. This BLP 
expressed in E. coli showed potential as a vaccine adjuvant, growth regulator 
and antiretroviral drug in chickens to decrease the negative effects of ALV 
infection.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-019-2192-2
PMCID: PMC6902579
PMID: 31823780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1347. J Appl Microbiol. 2022 Mar;132(3):2421-2430. doi: 10.1111/jam.15340. Epub 2021 
Nov 3.

Egg yolk immunoglobulin (IgY) targeting SARS-CoV-2 S1 as potential virus entry 
blocker.

Bao L(1), Zhang C(1), Lyu J(1), Yi P(1)(2), Shen X(1), Tang B(1), Zhao H(1), Ren 
B(1), Kuang Y(3), Zhou L(3), Li Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, West China School of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)The Clinical Laboratory of West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Department of Microbiology, West China School of Basic Medical Sciences and 
Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

AIMS: COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 has become a public health crisis 
worldwide. In this study, we aimed at demonstrating the neutralizing potential 
of the IgY produced after immunizing chicken with a recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike 
protein S1 subunit.
METHODS AND RESULTS: E. coli BL21 carrying plasmid pET28a-S1 was induced with 
IPTG for the expression of SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein. The recombinant His-tagged S1 
was purified and verified by SDS-PAGE, Western blot and biolayer interferometry 
(BLI) assay. Then S1 protein emulsified with Freund's adjuvant was used to 
immunize layer chickens. Specific IgY against S1 (S1-IgY) produced from egg 
yolks of these chickens exhibited a high titer (1:25,600) and a strong binding 
affinity to S1 (KD  = 318 nmol L-1 ). The neutralizing ability of S1-IgY was 
quantified by a SARS-CoV-2 pseudotyped virus-based neutralization assay with an 
IC50  value of 0.99 mg ml-1 . In addition, S1-IgY exhibited a strong ability in 
blocking the binding of SARS-CoV-2 S1 to hACE2, and it could partially compete 
with hACE2 for the binding sites on S1 by BLI assays.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated here that after immunization of chickens with our 
recombinant S1 protein, IgY neutralizing antibodies were generated against the 
SARS-CoV-2 spike protein S1 subunit; therefore, showing the potential use of IgY 
to block the entry of this virus.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: IgY targeting S1 subunit of SARS-CoV-2 
could be a promising candidate for pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis or 
treatment of COVID-19. Administration of IgY-based oral preparation, oral or 
nasal spray may have profound implications for blocking SARS-CoV-2.

© 2021 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.15340
PMCID: PMC8657347
PMID: 34706134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


1348. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2014;44(3):217-30. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2013.797435.

Increased bacterial cell density and recombinant protein yield using a 
commercial microbial cultivation system.

Peck GR(1), Bowden TR, Shiell BJ, Michalski WP.

Author information:
(1)a CSIRO Animal, Food and Health Sciences, Australian Animal Health Laboratory 
, East Geelong , Victoria , Australia.

EnBase (BioSilta, Finland) is a microbial cultivation system that replicates 
fed-batch systems through sustained release of glucose by enzymatic degradation 
of a polymeric substrate. Achievable bacterial cell densities and recombinant 
capripoxvirus protein expression levels, solubility, and antigenicity using the 
EnBase system were assessed. BL21-AI Escherichia coli expressing capripoxvirus 
proteins achieved up to eightfold higher cell densities when grown in EnBase 
media compared with standard media. Greater yields of capripoxvirus proteins 
were attained using EnBase media, either through increases in the amount of 
expressed protein per cell in conjunction with higher cell density or through 
the increase in cell density alone. Addition of EnBase booster enhanced protein 
yield for one of the proteins tested but reduced yield for the other. However, 
the amount of soluble forms of the capripoxvirus proteins tested was not 
different from that observed from cultures grown under standard conditions. 
Purified capripoxvirus proteins expressed using EnBase or standard media were 
assessed for their performance by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and 
were shown to be equally capable of specifically binding capripoxvirus 
antibodies.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2013.797435
PMID: 24274011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. J Biol Chem. 2020 Nov 13;295(46):15553-15565. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.015515. 
Epub 2020 Sep 1.

The human mitochondrial enzyme BCO2 exhibits catalytic activity toward 
carotenoids and apocarotenoids.

Thomas LD(1), Bandara S(1), Parmar VM(1), Srinivasagan R(1), Khadka N(1), 
Golczak M(2), Kiser PD(3), von Lintig J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Cleveland Center for Membrane and Structural 
Biology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Cleveland Center for Membrane and Structural 
Biology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA; Cleveland Center for Membrane and Structural Biology, School of Medicine, 
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of California, Irvine, 
California, USA; Research Service, Veterans Affairs Long Beach Healthcare 
System, Long Beach, California, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Cleveland Center for Membrane and Structural 
Biology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA. Electronic address: johannes.vonlintig@case.edu.

The enzyme β-carotene oxygenase 2 (BCO2) converts carotenoids into more polar 
metabolites. Studies in mammals, fish, and birds revealed that BCO2 controls 
carotenoid homeostasis and is involved in the pathway for vitamin A production. 
However, it is controversial whether BCO2 function is conserved in humans, 
because of a 4-amino acid long insertion caused by a splice acceptor site 
polymorphism. We here show that human BCO2 splice variants, BCO2a and BCO2b, are 
expressed as pre-proteins with mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS). The MTS 
of BCO2a directed a green fluorescent reporter protein to the mitochondria when 
expressed in ARPE-19 cells. Removal of the MTS increased solubility of BCO2a 
when expressed in Escherichia coli and rendered the recombinant protein 
enzymatically active. The expression of the enzymatically active recombinant 
human BCO2a was further improved by codon optimization and its fusion with 
maltose-binding protein. Introduction of the 4-amino acid insertion into mouse 
Bco2 did not impede the chimeric enzyme's catalytic proficiency. We further 
showed that the chimeric BCO2 displayed broad substrate specificity and 
converted carotenoids into two ionones and a central C14-apocarotendial by 
oxidative cleavage reactions at C9,C10 and C9',C10'. Thus, our study 
demonstrates that human BCO2 is a catalytically competent enzyme. Consequently, 
information on BCO2 becomes broadly applicable in human biology with important 
implications for the physiology of the eyes and other tissues.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.015515
PMCID: PMC7667965
PMID: 32873706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest—The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this article.


1350. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2010 Jan;43(1):43-51. doi: 10.1590/s0100-879x2009005000010. 
Epub 2009 Jul 31.

Tissue expression and subcellular localization of Mipu1, a novel myocardial 
ischemia-related gene.

Wang G(1), Zuo X, Jiang L, Wang K, Wei X, Zhang B, Xiao X.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Shock, Department of Pathophysiology, Xiangya School of 
Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

Myocardial ischemic preconditioning up-regulated protein 1 (Mipu1), a novel zinc 
finger protein, was originally cloned using bioinformatic analysis and 5' RACE 
technology of rat heart after a transient myocardial ischemia/reperfusion 
procedure in our laboratory. In order to investigate the functions of Mipu1, the 
recombinant prokaryotic expression vector pQE31-Mipu1 was constructed and 
transformed into Escherichia coli M15(pREP4), and Mipu1-6His fusion protein was 
expressed and purified. The identity of the purified protein was confirmed by 
mass spectrometry. The molecular mass of the Mipu1 protein was 70.03779 kDa. The 
fusion protein was intracutaneously injected to immunize New Zealand rabbits to 
produce a polyclonal antibody. The antibody titer was approximately 1:16,000. 
The antibody was tested by Western blotting for specificity and sensitivity. 
Using the antibody, it was found that Mipu1 was highly expressed in the heart 
and brain of rats and was localized in the nucleus of H9c2 myogenic cells. The 
present study lays the foundation for further study of the biological functions 
of Mipu1.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2009005000010
PMID: 19649394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Protein J. 2021 Jun;40(3):406-418. doi: 10.1007/s10930-021-09974-9. Epub 2021 
Mar 13.

Soluble Expression and Catalytic Properties of Codon-Optimized Recombinant 
Bromelain from MD2 Pineapple in Escherichia coli.

Razali R(1), Budiman C(2), Kamaruzaman KA(1), Subbiah VK(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Institute, Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Jalan UMS, 
88400, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia.
(2)Biotechnology Research Institute, Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Jalan UMS, 
88400, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia. cahyo82@gmail.com.

Bromelain, a member of cysteine proteases, is found abundantly in pineapple 
(Ananas comosus), and it has a myriad of versatile applications. However, 
attempts to produce recombinant bromelain for commercialization purposes are 
challenging due to its expressibility and solubility. This study aims to express 
recombinant fruit bromelain from MD2 pineapple (MD2Bro; accession no: 
OAY85858.1) in soluble and active forms using Escherichia coli host cell. The 
gene encoding MD2Bro was codon-optimized, synthesized, and subsequently ligated 
into pET-32b( +) for further transformation into Escherichia 
coli BL21-CodonPlus(DE3). Under this strategy, the expressed MD2Bro was in a 
fusion form with thioredoxin (Trx) tag at its N-terminal (Trx-MD2Bro). The 
result showed that Trx-MD2Bro was successfully expressed in fully soluble form. 
The protein was successfully purified using single-step Ni2+-NTA chromatography 
and confirmed to be in proper folds based on the circular dichroism spectroscopy 
analysis. The purified Trx-MD2Bro was confirmed to be catalytically active 
against N-carbobenzoxyglycine p-nitrophenyl ester (N-CBZ-Gly-pNP) with a 
specific activity of 6.13 ± 0.01 U mg-1 and inhibited by a cysteine protease 
inhibitor, E-64 (IC50 of 74.38 ± 1.65 nM). Furthermore, the catalytic efficiency 
(kcat/KM) Trx-MD2Bro was calculated to be at 5.64 ± 0.02 × 10-2 µM-1 s-1 while 
the optimum temperature and pH were at 50 °C and pH 6.0, respectively. 
Furthermore, the catalytic activity of Trx-MD2Bro was also affected by 
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) or metal ions. Altogether it is proposed 
that the combination of codon optimization and the use of an appropriate vector 
are important in the production of a soluble and actively stable recombinant 
bromelain.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-021-09974-9
PMID: 33713245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. Front Mol Biosci. 2022 Jan 21;8:800819. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2021.800819. 
eCollection 2021.

Prediction of Residue-specific Contributions to Binding and Thermal Stability 
Using Yeast Surface Display.

Ahmed S(1), Bhasin M(1), Manjunath K(2), Varadarajan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India.
(2)Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine, Bangalore, India.

Accurate prediction of residue burial as well as quantitative prediction of 
residue-specific contributions to protein stability and activity is challenging, 
especially in the absence of experimental structural information. This is 
important for prediction and understanding of disease causing mutations, and for 
protein stabilization and design. Using yeast surface display of a saturation 
mutagenesis library of the bacterial toxin CcdB, we probe the relationship 
between ligand binding and expression level of displayed protein, with in vivo 
solubility in E. coli and in vitro thermal stability. We find that both the 
stability and solubility correlate well with the total amount of active protein 
on the yeast cell surface but not with total amount of expressed protein. We 
coupled FACS and deep sequencing to reconstruct the binding and expression mean 
fluorescent intensity of each mutant. The reconstructed mean fluorescence 
intensity (MFIseq) was used to differentiate between buried site, exposed non 
active-site and exposed active-site positions with high accuracy. The MFIseq was 
also used as a criterion to identify destabilized as well as stabilized mutants 
in the library, and to predict the melting temperatures of destabilized mutants. 
These predictions were experimentally validated and were more accurate than 
those of various computational predictors. The approach was extended to 
successfully identify buried and active-site residues in the receptor binding 
domain of the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, suggesting it has general 
applicability.

Copyright © 2022 Ahmed, Bhasin, Manjunath and Varadarajan.

DOI: 10.3389/fmolb.2021.800819
PMCID: PMC8814602
PMID: 35127820

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


1353. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Nov;38(1):51-60. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.08.004.

The role of thioredoxin and disulfide isomerase in the expression of the snake 
venom thrombin-like enzyme calobin in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3).

Yuan S(1), Duan H, Liu C, Liu X, Liu T, Tao H, Zhang Z.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, 20 Dong Dajie Street, Fengtai District, 
Beijing 100071, China.

Thrombin-like enzymes (TLEs) are studied widely because of their therapeutic 
potential in myocardial infarction and thrombotic diseases. But they are always 
produced in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) as inclusion bodies because they are 
single chain Cys-rich proteins. In this work, coexpressing of thioredoxin (TrxA) 
largely increased the solubility of calobin, one of the TLEs from korea viper 
Agkistrodon caliginosus, but soluble calobin-T had poor enzyme activity. 
Disulfide isomerase (DsbC) was introduced into the host cell and coexpressed 
with calobin in the presence of TrxA, the result was that both the solubility 
and enzyme activity of calobin-TD were higher than those of calobin-T. Although 
recombinant calobins exhibited the enzyme of hydrolyzing the fibrinogen, they 
lost clotting activity to the substrate. Recombinant calobin-TD remained poor 
amidolytic activity, the effects of divalent metal cations and various 
inhibitors on this activity were similar to those of native calobin 
nevertheless, suggesting that calobin-TD exhibited the characteristics of serine 
protease especially of trypsin-like serine protease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.08.004
PMID: 15477082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2008 Mar 1;99(4):741-52. doi: 10.1002/bit.21765.

L-tyrosine production by recombinant Escherichia coli: fermentation optimization 
and recovery.

Patnaik R(1), Zolandz RR, Green DA, Kraynie DF.

Author information:
(1)DuPont Central Research & Development, Glasgow 300, PO Box 6300, Newark, 
Delaware 19714, USA. ranjan.patnaik@usa.dupont.com

L-tyrosine (L-tyr) overproducing Escherichia coli strain derived from an 
L-phenylalanine (L-phe) overproducing strain is characterized in 10 L and 200 L 
scale fermentations. Deletion of the chromosomal region encoding for the pheA 
gene, chorismate mutase/prephenate dehydratase, its leader peptide (pheL) and 
its associated promoter resulted in significant increase in L-tyr production 
(Olson et al., 2007. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 74(5):1031-1040). Further 
increase in titer was achieved by overexpressing tyrA, encoding chorismate 
mutase/prephenate dehydrogenase, from a strong non-native trc promoter (Olson et 
al., 2007. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 74(5):1031-1040). Fermentation optimization 
studies include media component selection; glucose feed optimization, antifoam 
agent selection, and understanding fermentation parameters affecting foaming. 
Generational stability of the strain was evaluated along with rate, titer, and 
yield of tyrosine formation from glucose. L-tyr titer of 55 g/L in 48 h was 
demonstrated in 200 L batches, is the highest titer published till date. We have 
also evaluated two primary separations schemes to isolate and purify L-tyr from 
the fermentation broth. Physical separation of L-tyr crystals from biomass using 
a decanter type centrifuge, based on the density difference between the solids, 
is compared and contrasted with a strategy where L-tyr is first dissolved at pH 
11.5 and then acid precipitated from clarified supernatants following removal of 
biomass using membrane filtration. L-tyr product purity of 98% with yields 
ranging from 90% to 95% is demonstrated.

Copyright 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.21765
PMID: 18069696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. J Vis Exp. 2009 Dec 28;(34):1627. doi: 10.3791/1627.

Engineering cell-permeable protein.

Münst B(1), Patsch C, Edenhofer F.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Engineering Group, Institute of Reconstructive Neurobiology, 
University of Bonn - Life & Brain Center and Hertie Foundation.

The protein transduction technique enables the direct delivery of biologically 
active material into mammalian cells [for review see (1,2)]. For this one can 
make use of the translocating ability of so-called cell penetrating peptides 
(CPPs), also designated as protein transduction domains (PTDs). The TAT-CPP 
derived from the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat 
(trans-activator of transcription) protein has been widely used. The positively 
charged TAT promotes cell permeability thereby overcoming the barriers of the 
cellular membrane by endocytosis or/and direct membrane penetration(2). In 
combination with a nuclear localization signal (NLS) fusion proteins are able to 
enter the nucleus exhibiting functionality. Our video presentation demonstrates, 
as an exemplification for the engineering of cell-permeable proteins, the 
construction, production and application of a cell-permeable version of the 
DNA-modifying enzyme Cre. Cre is a site-specific recombinase that is able to 
recognize and recombine 34 base pair loxP sites in mammalian cells in vitro and 
in vivo. Therefore the Cre/loxP system is widely used to conditionally induce 
mutations in the genome of living cells(3,4). The delivery of active Cre 
recombinase to cells, however, represents a limitation. We describe the pSESAME 
vector system, which allows a direct insertion of the gene-of-interest and 
provides a platform to rapidly clone different domains and tags used within the 
vector in a convenient and standardized manner. Rearranging of the different 
tags has been shown to modify the biochemical properties of the fusion proteins 
providing a possibility to achieve higher yield and better solubility. We 
demonstrate how to express and purify recombinant cell-permeant proteins in and 
from E. coli. The functionality of the recombinant Cre protein is finally 
validated in cell culture by assessing its intracellular recombinase activity.

DOI: 10.3791/1627
PMCID: PMC3149971
PMID: 20038937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2020 Dec 9;4(1):168-178. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.0c00159. eCollection 2021 Feb 12.

Transcriptomic Analysis of the Activity and Mechanism of Action of a 
Ruthenium(II)-Based Antimicrobial That Induces Minimal Evolution of Pathogen 
Resistance.

Varney AM(1), Smitten KL(2), Thomas JA(2), McLean S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent University, Nottingham 
NG11 8NS, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Chemistry, The University of Sheffield, Western Bank, Sheffield 
S3 7HF, United Kingdom.

Increasing concern over rising levels of antibiotic resistance among pathogenic 
bacteria has prompted significant research into developing efficacious 
alternatives to antibiotic treatment. Previously, we have reported on the 
therapeutic activity of a dinuclear ruthenium(II) complex against pathogenic, 
multi-drug-resistant bacterial pathogens. Herein, we report that the solubility 
properties of this lead are comparable to those exhibited by orally available 
therapeutics that in comparison to clinically relevant antibiotics it induces 
very slow evolution of resistance in the uropathogenic, therapeutically 
resistant, E. coli strain EC958, and this resistance was lost when exposure to 
the compound was temporarily removed. With the aim of further investigating the 
mechanism of action of this compound, the regulation of nine target genes 
relating to the membrane, DNA damage, and other stress responses provoked by 
exposure to the compound was also studied. This analysis confirmed that the 
compound causes a significant transcriptional downregulation of genes involved 
in membrane transport and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. By contrast, expression 
of the chaperone protein-coding gene, spy, was significantly increased 
suggesting a requirement for repair of damaged proteins in the region of the 
outer membrane. The complex was also found to display activity comparable to 
that in E. coli in a range of other therapeutically relevant Gram-negative 
pathogens.

© 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.0c00159
PMCID: PMC7887750
PMID: 33615170

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


1357. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;525:187-216, xiii. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-554-1_10.

Selection of non-aggregating VH binders from synthetic VH phage-display 
libraries.

Arbabi-Ghahroudi M(1), MacKenzie R, Tanha J.

Author information:
(1)National Research Council of Canada, Institute for Biological Sciences, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

The particular interest in VH antibody fragments stems from the fact that they 
can rival their "naturally occurring" single-domain antibody (sdAb) counterparts 
(camelid VHHs and shark VNARs) with regard to such desirable characteristics as 
stability, solubility, expression, and ability to penetrate cryptic epitopes and 
outperform them in terms of less immunogenicity, a much valued property in human 
immunotherapy applications. However, human VHs are typically prone to 
aggregation. Various approaches for developing non-aggregating human VHs with 
binding specificities have relied on a combination of recombinant DNA technology 
and phage-display technology. VH gene libraries are constructed synthetically by 
randomizing the CDRs of a single VH scaffold fused to a gene encoding a phage 
coat protein. Recombinant phage expressing the resulting VH libraries in fusion 
with the pIII protein is propagated in Escherichia coli. Monoclonal phage 
displaying VHs with specificities for target antigens are isolated from the 
libraries by a process called panning. The exertion of stability pressure in 
addition to binding pressure during panning ensures that the isolated VH binders 
are also non-aggregating. The genes encoding the desired VHs selected from the 
libraries are packaged within the phage particles, linking genotype and 
phenotype, hence making possible the identification of the selected VHs through 
identifying its physically linked genotype. Here, we describe the application of 
recombinant DNA and phage-display technologies for the construction of a 
phage-displayed human VH library, the panning of the library against a protein, 
and the expression, purification, and characterization of non-aggregating VHs 
isolated by panning.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-554-1_10
PMID: 19252860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. Protein Expr Purif. 2002 Aug;25(3):448-55. doi: 10.1016/s1046-5928(02)00030-x.

Large-scale production of functional human adrenomedullin: expression, cleavage, 
amidation, and purification.

Mitsuda Y(1), Takimoto A, Kamitani S, Kitamura K, Sakata T, Mitsushima K.

Author information:
(1)Discovery Research Laboratories, Shionogi and Co. Ltd., 2-5-1 Mishima, Settu, 
Osaka 566-0022, Japan. yuuichi.mitsuda@shionogi.co.jp

Human adrenomedullin (hAM) is a 52-amino-acid regulatory peptide containing a 
six-membered ring structure and an amidated C-terminus, features that are 
essential for its biological activity. Here, we describe a simple and effective 
protocol for producing large quantities of highly pure, functional recombinant 
hAM. A peptide precursor (hAM-Gly) was expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion 
protein with thioredoxin and collected as inclusion bodies. The fusion protein 
was then digested with BLase, a glutamate-specific endopeptidase, to prepare 
hAM-Gly. The essential ring structure formed spontaneously, while the terminal 
amide was generated by conversion of the added glycine residue using 
peptidylglycine alpha-amidating enzyme. The low solubility of hAM-Gly enabled 
the use of a selective precipitation/extraction method to generate a product 
that was 80-90% pure, which was sufficient to proceed with the alpha-amidating 
enzyme reaction. The resultant hAM was then purified further by column 
chromatography. The final yield was about 82 mg/L of bacterial culture, and the 
purity, determined by reverse phase HPLC, was >99.5%. The recombinant hAM was 
biologically active, eliciting concentration-dependent increases in cAMP in 
CHO-K1 cells expressing a specific hAM receptor and hypotensive responses when 
intravenously injected into rats. This new approach to the synthesis of hAM is 
simpler and more cost-effective for large-scale production than chemical 
synthesis. It therefore represents a new powerful tool that has the potential to 
facilitate analysis of the structure and function of hAM, as well as the 
development of new therapeutic protocols for the treatment of ailments such as 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1016/s1046-5928(02)00030-x
PMID: 12182825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 May;89(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.02.001. Epub 
2013 Feb 13.

Expression, purification, and functional characterization of an N-terminal 
fragment of the tomato mosaic virus resistance protein Tm-1.

Kato M(1), Ishibashi K, Kobayashi C, Ishikawa M, Katoh E.

Author information:
(1)Biomolecular Research Unit, National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8602, Japan.

Tm-1, the protein product of Tm-1, a semidominant resistance gene of tomato, 
inhibits tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) replication by binding to ToMV replication 
proteins. Previous studies suggested the importance of the Tm-1 N-terminal 
region for its inhibitory activity; however, it has not been determined if the 
N-terminal region is sufficient for inhibition. Furthermore, the 
three-dimensional structure of Tm-1 has not been determined. In this study, an 
N-terminal fragment of Tm-1 (residues 1-431) as a fusion protein containing an 
upstream maltose-binding protein was expressed in E. coli Rosetta (DE3) cells at 
30°C and then purified. The solubility of the fusion protein was greater when 
the cells were cultured at 30°C than when cultured at lower or higher 
temperatures. The purified N-terminal Tm-1 fragment from which the 
maltose-binding protein tag had been removed has inhibitory activity against 
ToMV RNA replication.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.02.001
PMID: 23415925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2021 May 31;19(1):81. doi: 10.1186/s43141-021-00180-9.

The immune response and protective efficacy of a potential DNA vaccine against 
virulent Pasteurella multocida.

Yassein AAM(1), Teleb AA(2), Hassan GM(2), El Fiky ZA(2).

Author information:
(1)Genetics Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, 63514, 
Fayoum, Egypt. aay00@fayoum.edu.eg.
(2)Genetics Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, 63514, 
Fayoum, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Pasteurella multocida is the main cause of several infections of 
farm animals, and the immunity gained from commercial vaccines is for the short 
term only and needs to be routinely administered, so work on new vaccines 
against virulent P. multocida is crucial.
RESULTS: In this study, the OmpH gene was amplified from ten P. multocida 
strains, and the PCR products were sequenced and analyzed. The results of RFLP 
analysis of OmpH gene digested by MspI enzyme showed that all of ten strains 
examined possessed one restriction site and two fragments, 350 and 650 bp. The 
OmpH sequence of strain No. 10 was cloned into bacterial expression vector 
pUCP24, and the recombinant pUCP24-OmpH was expressed in E. coli DH5α. Serum 
samples obtained from the ELISA test from a group of vaccinated rats indicate 
that the antibodies were present at high titer in immunized rats and can be 
tested as a vaccine candidate with a challenge.
CONCLUSIONS: In rats infected with the DNA vaccine and inactivated vaccine, a 
significant increase in serum antibody levels was observed. In addition, the DNA 
vaccine provided the vaccinated rats with partial protection; however, the 
protective efficacy was greater than that offered by the live attenuated 
vaccine. This successful recombinant vaccine is immunogenic and may potentially 
be used as a vaccine in the future.

DOI: 10.1186/s43141-021-00180-9
PMCID: PMC8167001
PMID: 34057640

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1361. FEBS J. 2012 Jun;279(12):2192-200. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2012.08603.x. Epub 
2012 May 21.

PROSO II--a new method for protein solubility prediction.

Smialowski P(1), Doose G, Torkler P, Kaufmann S, Frishman D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genome Oriented Bioinformatics, Technische Universität 
Muenchen, Freising, Germany. pawelsm@gmail.com

Many fields of science and industry depend on efficient production of active 
protein using heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. The solubility of 
proteins upon expression is dependent on their amino acid sequence. Prediction 
of solubility from sequence is therefore highly valuable. We present a novel 
machine-learning-based model called PROSO II which makes use of new 
classification methods and growth in experimental data to improve coverage and 
accuracy of solubility predictions. The classification algorithm is organized as 
a two-layered structure in which the output of a primary Parzen window model for 
sequence similarity and a logistic regression classifier of amino acid k-mer 
composition serve as input for a second-level logistic regression classifier. 
Compared with previously published research our model is trained on five times 
more data than used by any other method before (82 000 proteins). When tested on 
a separate holdout set not used at any point of method development our server 
attained the best results in comparison with other currently available methods: 
accuracy 75.4%, Matthew's correlation coefficient 0.39, sensitivity 0.731, 
specificity 0.759, gain (soluble) 2.263. In summary, due to utilization of 
cutting edge machine learning technologies combined with the largest currently 
available experimental data set the PROSO II server constitutes a substantial 
improvement in protein solubility predictions. PROSO II is available at 
http://mips.helmholtz-muenchen.de/prosoII.

© 2012 The Authors Journal compilation © 2012 FEBS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2012.08603.x
PMID: 22536855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. PLoS One. 2021 Apr 29;16(4):e0250610. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0250610. 
eCollection 2021.

Fast and efficient purification of SARS-CoV-2 RNA dependent RNA polymerase 
complex expressed in Escherichia coli.

Madru C(1), Tekpinar AD(1)(2), Rosario S(1), Czernecki D(1)(3), Brûlé S(4), 
Sauguet L(1), Delarue M(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Structural Dynamics of Macromolecules, Institut Pasteur & CNRS UMR, 
Paris, France.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Science, Van Yüzüncü 
Yıl University, Van, Turkey.
(3)École Doctorale Complexité du Vivant, Sorbonne Université, Paris, France.
(4)Molecular Biophysics Platform, C2RT, Institut Pasteur, CNRS UMR, Paris, 
France.

To stop the COVID-19 pandemic due to the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome 
Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which caused more than 2.5 million deaths to date, 
new antiviral molecules are urgently needed. The replication of SARS-CoV-2 
requires the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), making RdRp an excellent 
target for antiviral agents. RdRp is a multi-subunit complex composed of 3 viral 
proteins named nsp7, nsp8 and nsp12 that ensure the ~30 kb RNA genome's 
transcription and replication. The main strategies employed so far for the 
overproduction of RdRp consist of expressing and purifying the three subunits 
separately before assembling the complex in vitro. However, nsp12 shows limited 
solubility in bacterial expression systems and is often produced in insect 
cells. Here, we describe an alternative strategy to co-express the full 
SARS-CoV-2 RdRp in E. coli, using a single plasmid. Characterization of the 
purified recombinant SARS-CoV-2 RdRp shows that it forms a complex with the 
expected (nsp7)(nsp8)2(nsp12) stoichiometry. RNA polymerization activity was 
measured using primer-extension assays showing that the purified enzyme is 
functional. The purification protocol can be achieved in one single day, 
surpassing in speed all other published protocols. Our construct is ideally 
suited for screening RdRp and its variants against very large chemical compounds 
libraries and has been made available to the scientific community through the 
Addgene plasmid depository (Addgene ID: 165451).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0250610
PMCID: PMC8084133
PMID: 33914787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


1363. J Biotechnol. 2011 Dec 20;156(4):309-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2011.08.014. 
Epub 2011 Aug 22.

Metabolic engineering of Pseudomonas fluorescens for the production of vanillin 
from ferulic acid.

Di Gioia D(1), Luziatelli F, Negroni A, Ficca AG, Fava F, Ruzzi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agroenvironmental Sciences and Technologies, University of 
Bologna, Viale Fanin 42, Bologna, Italy.

Vanillin is one of the most important flavors in the food industry and there is 
great interest in its production through biotechnological processes starting 
from natural substrates such as ferulic acid. Among bacteria, recombinant 
Escherichia coli strains are the most efficient vanillin producers, whereas 
Pseudomonas spp. strains, although possessing a broader metabolic versatility, 
rapidly metabolize various phenolic compounds including vanillin. In order to 
develop a robust Pseudomonas strain that can produce vanillin in high yields and 
at high productivity, the vanillin dehydrogenase (vdh)-encoding gene of 
Pseudomonas fluorescens BF13 strain was inactivated via targeted mutagenesis. 
The results demonstrated that engineered derivatives of strain BF13 accumulate 
vanillin if inactivation of vdh is associated with concurrent expression of 
structural genes for feruloyl-CoA synthetase (fcs) and hydratase/aldolase (ech) 
from a low-copy plasmid. The conversion of ferulic acid to vanillin was enhanced 
by optimization of growth conditions, growth phase and parameters of the 
bioconversion process. The developed strain produced up to 8.41 mM vanillin, 
which is the highest final titer of vanillin produced by a Pseudomonas strain to 
date and opens new perspectives in the use of bacterial biocatalysts for 
biotechnological production of vanillin from agro-industrial wastes which 
contain ferulic acid.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2011.08.014
PMID: 21875627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Metab Eng. 2011 May;13(3):345-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2011.02.004.

Engineered ketol-acid reductoisomerase and alcohol dehydrogenase enable 
anaerobic 2-methylpropan-1-ol production at theoretical yield in Escherichia 
coli.

Bastian S(1), Liu X, Meyerowitz JT, Snow CD, Chen MM, Arnold FH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA.

2-methylpropan-1-ol (isobutanol) is a leading candidate biofuel for the 
replacement or supplementation of current fossil fuels. Recent work has 
demonstrated glucose to isobutanol conversion through a modified amino acid 
pathway in a recombinant organism. Although anaerobic conditions are required 
for an economically competitive process, only aerobic isobutanol production has 
been feasible due to an imbalance in cofactor utilization. Two of the pathway 
enzymes, ketol-acid reductoisomerase and alcohol dehydrogenase, require 
nicotinamide dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH); glycolysis, however, produces only 
nicotinamide dinucleotide (NADH). Here, we compare two solutions to this 
imbalance problem: (1) over-expression of pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase 
PntAB and (2) construction of an NADH-dependent pathway, using engineered 
enzymes. We demonstrate that an NADH-dependent pathway enables anaerobic 
isobutanol production at 100% theoretical yield and at higher titer and 
productivity than both the NADPH-dependent pathway and transhydrogenase 
over-expressing strain. Our results show how engineering cofactor dependence can 
overcome a critical obstacle to next-generation biofuel commercialization.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2011.02.004
PMID: 21515217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. Sci Rep. 2014 Oct 17;4:6640. doi: 10.1038/srep06640.

Production of salidroside in metabolically engineered Escherichia coli.

Bai Y(1), Bi H(2), Zhuang Y(2), Liu C(1), Cai T(3), Liu X(1), Zhang X(2), Liu 
T(2), Ma Y(3).

Author information:
(1)1] Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China [2] Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China [3] University 
of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)1] Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China [2] Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China.
(3)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin 300308, China.

Salidroside (1) is the most important bioactive component of Rhodiola (also 
called as "Tibetan Ginseng"), which is a valuable medicinal herb exhibiting 
several adaptogenic properties. Due to the inefficiency of plant extraction and 
chemical synthesis, the supply of salidroside (1) is currently limited. Herein, 
we achieved unprecedented biosynthesis of salidroside (1) from glucose in a 
microorganism. First, the pyruvate decarboxylase ARO10 and endogenous alcohol 
dehydrogenases were recruited to convert 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate (2), an 
intermediate of L-tyrosine pathway, to tyrosol (3) in Escherichia coli. 
Subsequently, tyrosol production was improved by overexpressing the pathway 
genes, and by eliminating competing pathways and feedback inhibition. Finally, 
by introducing Rhodiola-derived glycosyltransferase UGT73B6 into the 
above-mentioned recombinant strain, salidroside (1) was produced with a titer of 
56.9 mg/L. Interestingly, the Rhodiola-derived glycosyltransferase, UGT73B6, 
also catalyzed the attachment of glucose to the phenol position of tyrosol (3) 
to form icariside D2 (4), which was not reported in any previous literatures.

DOI: 10.1038/srep06640
PMCID: PMC4200411
PMID: 25323006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This work has been included in a patent 
application by the Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology.


1366. Vaccine. 2022 Jan 3;40(1):89-99. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.11.042. Epub 2021 
Nov 24.

Immunization with recombinant ORF2 p551 protein protects common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) against homologous and heterologous hepatitis E virus 
challenge.

Gordeychuk I(1), Kyuregyan K(2), Kondrashova A(3), Bayurova E(4), Gulyaev S(5), 
Gulyaeva T(6), Potemkin I(7), Karlsen A(8), Isaeva O(9), Belyakova A(10), 
Lyashenko A(11), Sorokin A(12), Chumakov A(3), Morozov I(13), Isaguliants M(14), 
Ishmukhametov A(15), Mikhailov M(16).

Author information:
(1)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, Sechenov First 
Moscow State Medical University, Moscow 127994, Russia. Electronic address: 
gordeychuk_iv@chumakovs.su.
(2)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; I.I. Mechnikov Research Institute of Vaccines and Sera, Moscow 105064, 
Russia; Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, Moscow 
125993, Russia. Electronic address: karen-kyuregyan@yandex.ru.
(3)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, Sechenov First 
Moscow State Medical University, Moscow 127994, Russia.
(4)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia. Electronic address: bayurova_eo@chumakovs.su.
(5)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia. Electronic address: gulyaev_sa@chumakovs.su.
(6)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia. Electronic address: gulyaeva_tv@chumakovs.su.
(7)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; I.I. Mechnikov Research Institute of Vaccines and Sera, Moscow 105064, 
Russia; Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, Moscow 
125993, Russia. Electronic address: axi0ma@mail.ru.
(8)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; I.I. Mechnikov Research Institute of Vaccines and Sera, Moscow 105064, 
Russia; Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, Moscow 
125993, Russia; N.F. Gamaleya Federal Research Center for Epidemiology & 
Microbiology, Moscow 123098, Russia.
(9)I.I. Mechnikov Research Institute of Vaccines and Sera, Moscow 105064, 
Russia; Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, Moscow 
125993, Russia. Electronic address: isaeva.06@mail.ru.
(10)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia. Electronic address: belyakova_av@chumakovs.su.
(11)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia. Electronic address: annalyashen@yandex.ru.
(12)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia.
(13)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia. Electronic address: morozov_ia@chumakovs.su.
(14)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; N.F. Gamaleya Federal Research Center for Epidemiology & Microbiology, 
Moscow 123098, Russia; Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, 
Karolinska Institutet, 17177 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
Maria.Issagouliantis@ki.se.
(15)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of 
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 108819, 
Russia; Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, Sechenov First 
Moscow State Medical University, Moscow 127994, Russia. Electronic address: 
ishmukhametov@chumakovs.su.
(16)I.I. Mechnikov Research Institute of Vaccines and Sera, Moscow 105064, 
Russia; Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, Moscow 
125993, Russia. Electronic address: michmich2@yandex.ru.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a major causative agent of acute 
hepatitis worldwide, prompting continuous HEV vaccine efforts. Vaccine 
development is hampered by the lack of convenient animal models susceptible to 
infection with different HEV genotypes. We produced recombinant open reading 
frame 2 protein (pORF2; p551) of HEV genotype (GT) 3 and assessed its 
immunogenicity and protectivity against HEV challenge in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus, CM).
METHODS: p551 with consensus sequence corresponding to amino acid residues 
110-660 of HEV GT3 pORF2 was expressed in E. coli and purified by affinity 
chromatography. CMs were immunized intramuscularly with 20 μg of p551 VLPs with 
alum adjuvant (n = 4) or adjuvant alone (n = 2) at weeks 0, 3, 7 and 19. At week 
27, p551-immunized and control animals were challenged with HEV GT1 or GT3 and 
thereafter longitudinally screened for markers of liver function, anti-HEV IgG 
and HEV RNA in feces and sera.
RESULTS: Purified p551 formed VLPs with particle size of 27.71 ± 2.42 nm. Two 
immunizations with p551 induced anti-HEV IgG mean titer of 1:1810. Immunized CMs 
challenged with homologous and heterologous HEV genotype did not develop HEV 
infection during the follow-up. Control CMs infected with both HEV GT1 and GT3 
demonstrated signs of HEV infection with virus shedding and elevation of the 
levels of liver enzymes. High levels of anti-HEV IgG persisted in vaccinated CMs 
and control CMs that resolved HEV infection, for up to two years post challenge.
CONCLUSIONS: CMs are shown to be a convenient laboratory animal model 
susceptible to infection with HEV GT1 and GT3. Immunization with HEV GT3 
ORF2/p551 triggers potent anti-HEV antibody response protecting CMs from 
homologous and heterologous HEV challenge. This advances p551 in VLPs as a 
prototype vaccine against HEV.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.11.042
PMID: 34836660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


1367. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Aug;103(15):6071-6079. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-019-09925-6. Epub 2019 Jun 7.

Soluble expression of single-chain variable fragment (scFv) in Escherichia coli 
using superfolder green fluorescent protein as fusion partner.

Liu M(1), Wang B(1), Wang F(1), Yang Z(1), Gao D(1), Zhang C(1), Ma L(2), Yu 
X(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Hubei Key 
Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Hubei Key 
Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, China. malixing@hubu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Hubei Key 
Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, China. yxiaolan@163.com.

Single-chain variable fragment (scFv) has great prospect in medical therapies 
and diagnostic applications due to its binding affinity and low immunogenicity. 
However, the application of scFv is limited by its heterologous expression 
facing challenges of insoluble aggregation. sfGFP has been developed as fusion 
tag to facilitate the solubility of fusion partner in Escherichia coli. We 
designed fusion protein of anti-influenza PB2 scFv at C-terminus of sfGFP and 
successfully obtained soluble expression of sfGFP-scFv-His in Escherichia coli. 
The expression level of sfGFP-scFv-His reached at 20 mg/L of bacterial culture 
when the culture was induced with 0.1 mM IPTG at 18 °C for 16 h. And 6 mg 
scFv-His was obtained from the cleavage of 10 mg pure sfGFP-scFv-His with TEV 
protease. In addition, we found that sfGFP-scFv-His was more stable than 
scFv-His in chicken serum, suggesting that sfGFP not only facilitated the 
solubility of scFv in Escherichia coli, but also promoted the stability of scFv. 
The immunologic activity of sfGFP-scFv-His was confirmed by Western blot and 
ELISA; the results showed that anti-PB2 sfGFP-scFv-His exhibited specific 
binding to PB2. Hemagglutination and comparative real-time RT-PCR analysis 
indicated that sfGFP-scFv-His and scFv-His inhibited the replication of H1N1 
influenza virus in the infected A549 cells. These results further develop the 
application of scFv as an agent, such as anti-influenza. Furthermore, soluble 
expression of scFv using sfGFP as fusion partner provide a cost-effective 
preparation model for manufacturing scFv against pandemic disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-09925-6
PMID: 31175428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2014 Oct;64-65:38-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.07.001. Epub 2014 Jul 11.

Production of rubusoside from stevioside by using a thermostable lactase from 
Thermus thermophilus and solubility enhancement of liquiritin and teniposide.

Nguyen TT(1), Jung SJ(2), Kang HK(3), Kim YM(4), Moon YH(5), Kim M(6), Kim D(7).

Author information:
(1)Institutes of Green Bio Science & Technology, Seoul National University, 
Gangwon-do 232-916, Republic of Korea.
(2)Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute Advanced Radiation Technology 
Institute, Jeollabuk-do 500-185, Republic of Korea.
(3)Research Center for Proteinaceous Materials (RCPM), Chosun University, 
Gwang-Ju 501-759, Republic of Korea.
(4)Infection Control Material Research Center, Korea Research Institute of 
Bioscience and Biotechnology, Jeollabuk-do 580-185, Republic of Korea.
(5)Audubon Sugar Institute, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 
Gabriel, LA 70776, USA.
(6)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Dankook University, Gyeonggi-do 
448-701, Republic of Korea.
(7)Institutes of Green Bio Science & Technology, Seoul National University, 
Gangwon-do 232-916, Republic of Korea; Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, 
Seoul National University, Seoul 151-921, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
kimdm@snu.ac.kr.

Solubility is an important factor for achieving the desired plasma level of drug 
for pharmacological response. About 40% of drugs are not soluble in water in 
practice and therefore are slowly absorbed, which results in insufficient and 
uneven bioavailability and GI toxicity. Rubusoside (Ru) is a sweetener component 
in herbal tea and was discovered to enhance the solubility of a number of 
pharmaceutically and medicinally important compounds, including anticancer 
compounds. In this study, thirty-one hydrolyzing enzymes were screened for the 
conversion of stevioside (Ste) to Ru. Recombinant lactase from Thermus 
thermophiles which was expressed in Escherichia coli converted stevioside to 
rubusoside as a main product. Immobilized lactase was prepared and used for the 
production of rubusoside; twelve reaction cycles were repeated with 95.4% of Ste 
hydrolysis and 49 g L(-1) of Ru was produced. The optimum rubusoside synthesis 
yield was 86% at 200 g L(-1), 1200 U lactase. The purified 10% rubusoside 
solution showed increased water solubility of liquiritin from 0.98 mg mL(-1) to 
4.70±0.12 mg mL(-1) and 0 mg mL(-1) to 3.42±0.11 mg mL(-1) in the case of 
teniposide.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2014.07.001
PMID: 25152415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. BMC Biotechnol. 2021 Jan 8;21(1):3. doi: 10.1186/s12896-020-00662-7.

Effectiveness of recombinant Escherichia coli on the production of 
(R)-(+)-perillyl alcohol.

Sun C(1)(2), Dong X(2), Zhang R(3), Xie C(4).

Author information:
(1)A State Key Laboratory Base of Eco-Chemical Engineering, College of Chemistry 
and Molecular Engineering, Qingdao University of Science and Technology, 53 
Zhengzhou Rd., Qingdao, 266042, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Bio-based Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 189 Songling Rd., Qingdao, 
266101, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Bio-based Materials, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and 
Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 189 Songling Rd., Qingdao, 
266101, China. zhangrb@qibebt.ac.cn.
(4)A State Key Laboratory Base of Eco-Chemical Engineering, College of Chemistry 
and Molecular Engineering, Qingdao University of Science and Technology, 53 
Zhengzhou Rd., Qingdao, 266042, China. xiecongxia@126.com.

BACKGROUND: (R)-(+)-perillyl alcohol is a naturally oxygenated monoterpene 
widely used as the natural flavor additives, insecticides, jet fuels and 
anti-cancer therapies. It was also readily available monoterpene precursors. 
However, this natural product is present at low concentrations from plant 
sources which are not economically viable. Therefore, alternative microbial 
production methods are rapidly emerging as an attractive alternative to make 
(R)-(+)-perillyl alcohol production more sustainable and environmentally 
friendly.
RESULTS: We engineered Escherichia coli to possess a heterologous mevalonate 
(MVA) pathway, including limonene synthase, P-cymene monoxygenase hydroxylase 
and P-cymene monoxygenase reductase for the production of (R)-(+)-perillyl 
alcohol. The concentration of (R)-(+)-limonene (the monoterpene precursor to 
(R)-(+)-perillyl alcohol) reached 45 mg/L from glucose. Enhanced 
(R)-(+)-perillyl alcohol production was therefore achieved. The strain produced 
(R)-(+)-perillyl alcohol at a titer of 87 mg/L and a yield of 1.5 mg/g glucose 
in a 5 L bioreactor fed batch system.
CONCLUSIONS: These datas highlight the efficient production of (R)-(+)-perillyl 
alcohol through the mevalonate pathway from glucose. This method serves as a 
platform for the future production of other monoterpenes.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-020-00662-7
PMCID: PMC7791655
PMID: 33419424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1370. Microb Cell Fact. 2021 Jan 12;20(1):14. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01507-w.

Molecular, structural and biochemical characterization of a novel recombinant 
chlorophyllase from cyanobacterium Oscillatoria acuminata PCC 6304.

Gu S(1)(2), Dai X(3), Xu Z(3), Niu Q(3), Jiang J(4), Liu Y(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Food Safety and Quality Control in Jiangsu Province, National 
Engineering Research Center for Functional Food, National Engineering Laboratory 
for Cereal Fermentation Technology, School of Food Science and Technology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Jiangsu, 214122, Wuxi, People's Republic of 
China. gusitian1983@163.com.
(2)Wilmar Biotechnology Research & Development Center Co., Ltd, 200137, 
Shanghai, People's Republic of China. gusitian1983@163.com.
(3)Wilmar Biotechnology Research & Development Center Co., Ltd, 200137, 
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Food Safety and Quality Control in Jiangsu Province, National 
Engineering Research Center for Functional Food, National Engineering Laboratory 
for Cereal Fermentation Technology, School of Food Science and Technology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Jiangsu, 214122, Wuxi, People's Republic of 
China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Food Safety and Quality Control in Jiangsu Province, National 
Engineering Research Center for Functional Food, National Engineering Laboratory 
for Cereal Fermentation Technology, School of Food Science and Technology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Jiangsu, 214122, Wuxi, People's Republic of 
China. yfliu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Chlorophyllase catalyzes the hydrolysis of chlorophyll and produces 
chlorophyllide and phytol. Cyanobacterial chlorophyllases are likely to be more 
highly heterologously expressed than plant chlorophyllases. A novel recombinant 
chlorophyllase from the cyanobacterium Oscillatoria acuminata PCC 6304 was 
successfully expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3).
RESULTS: The putative N-terminal 28-amino-acid signal peptide sequence of O. 
acuminata chlorophyllase (OaCLH) is essential for its activity, but may confer 
poor solubility on OaCLH. The C-terminal fusion of a 6 × His tag caused a 
partial loss of activity in recombinant OaCLH, but an N-terminal 6 × His tag did 
not destroy its activity. The optimal pH and temperature for recombinant OaCLH 
activity are 7.0 and 40 °C, respectively. Recombinant OaCLH has hydrolysis 
activities against chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, bacteriochlorophyll a, and 
pheophytin a, but prefers chlorophyll b and chlorophyll a as substrates. The 
results of site-directed mutagenesis experiments indicated that the catalytic 
triad of OaCLH consists of Ser159, Asp226, and His258.
CONCLUSIONS: The high-level expression and broad substrate specificity of 
recombinant OaCLH make it suitable for genetically engineering and a promising 
biocatalyst for industrial production, with applications in vegetable oil 
refining and laundry detergents.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01507-w
PMCID: PMC7802212
PMID: 33430874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1371. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2015 May;31(5):711-21.

[Prokaryotic expression of Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) NS3 protein and preparation 
of polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun T, Yang G, Zhang J, Xia X.

To increase detection sensitivity and specificity on hepatitis C virus (HCV) is 
vital for prevention and controlling of the disease. To establish a more 
reliable detection method for HCV diagnosis, the full gene fragment of ns3 
(non-structural protein of HCV) from recombinant plasmid of J6/JFH1 2a was 
amplified and then connected into the pET-28a prokaryotic expression vector, and 
the latter was subsequently transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) to have 
the target protein expression. As a result, a protein with a molecular weight of 
72 kDa was obtained and visualized in 10% SDS-PAGE. The purified NS3 protein was 
used as immunogen to inoculate BALB/c mice and the sera was collected after the 
fourth immunization. The antibody titer of serum is determined to be about 
1:256000 with ELISA. Western blotting and indirect immunofluorescence analysis 
showed that the mouse polyclonal antibody could react specifically with the 
native NS3 protein in Huh 7.5.1 cells infected with HCV. These findings may 
provide basis for further preparation of monoclonal antibodies against NS3 and 
the development of related detection kit.

PMID: 26571692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. J Biomol NMR. 2006 Sep;36(1):55-71. doi: 10.1007/s10858-006-9070-5. Epub 2006 
Sep 9.

Magic-angle spinning solid-state NMR of a 144 kDa membrane protein complex: E. 
coli cytochrome bo3 oxidase.

Frericks HL(1), Zhou DH, Yap LL, Gennis RB, Rienstra CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, 
IL 61801, USA.

Recent progress in magic-angle spinning (MAS) solid-state NMR (SSNMR) has 
enabled multidimensional studies of large, macroscopically unoriented membrane 
proteins with associated lipids, without the requirement of solubility that 
limits other structural techniques. Here we present initial sample preparation 
and SSNMR studies of a 144 kDa integral membrane protein, E. coli cytochrome 
bo(3) oxidase. The optimized protocol for expression and purification yields 
approximately 5 mg of the enzymatically active, uniformly (13)C,(15)N-enriched 
membrane protein complex from each liter of growth medium. The preparation 
retains endogenous lipids and yields spectra of high sensitivity and resolution, 
consistent with a folded, homogenous protein. Line widths of isolated signals 
are less than 0.5 ppm, with a large number of individual resonances resolved in 
the 2D and 3D spectra. The (13)C chemical shifts, assigned by amino acid type, 
are consistent with the secondary structure previously observed by diffraction 
methods. Although the structure is predominantly helical, the percentage of 
non-helical signals varies among residue types; these percentages agree well 
between the NMR and diffraction data. Samples show minimal evidence of 
degradation after several weeks of NMR data acquisition. Use of a triple 
resonance scroll resonator probe further improves sample stability and enables 
higher power decoupling, higher duty cycles and more advanced 3D experiments to 
be performed. These initial results in cytochrome bo(3) oxidase demonstrate that 
multidimensional MAS SSNMR techniques have sufficient sensitivity and resolution 
to interrogate selected parts of a very large uniformly (13)C,(15)N-labeled 
membrane protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s10858-006-9070-5
PMID: 16964530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2009 Jul;16(7):1040-6. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00090-09. Epub 
2009 May 27.

Antibodies specific for the Hia adhesion proteins of nontypeable Haemophilus 
influenzae mediate opsonophagocytic activity.

Winter LE(1), Barenkamp SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, St Louis University School of Medicine, Doisy 
Research Center, Saint Louis, MO 63104, USA.

The Hia autotransporter proteins are highly immunogenic surface adhesins 
expressed by nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI). The objective of our 
study was to assess the opsonophagocytic activity of anti-Hia antibodies against 
homologous and heterologous NTHI. A segment of the hia gene that encodes a 
surface-exposed portion of the H. influenzae strain 11 Hia protein was cloned 
into a pGEMEX-2 expression vector. Escherichia coli JM101 was transformed with 
the resulting pGEMEX-Hia BstEII del recombinant plasmid, and recombinant fusion 
protein was recovered. An immune serum against recombinant GEMEX-Hia 
(rGEMEX-Hia)-mediated killing of the homologous NTHI strain 11 at a 1:160 titer 
and five heterologous Hia-expressing strains at titers of > or =1:40. Immune 
serum did not mediate killing of two Hia-knockout strains whose hia genes were 
inactivated but did mediate killing of one knockout strain at a high titer after 
the strain was transformed with a plasmid containing the hia gene. Immune serum 
did not mediate killing of HMW1/HMW2-expressing NTHI strains, which do not 
express the Hia adhesin. However, when two representative HMW1/HMW2-expressing 
strains were transformed with the plasmid containing the hia gene, they 
expressed abundant Hia and were susceptible to killing by the immune serum. 
Immune serum did not mediate killing of HMW1/HMW2-expressing strains transformed 
with the plasmid without the hia gene. Our results demonstrate that the Hia 
proteins of NTHI are targets of opsonophagocytic antibodies and that shared 
epitopes recognized by such antibodies are present on the Hia proteins of 
unrelated NTHI strains. These data argue for the continued investigation of the 
Hia proteins as vaccine candidates for the prevention of NTHI disease.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00090-09
PMCID: PMC2708409
PMID: 19474261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2022 Jan 25;38(1):130-138. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.210196.

[Preparation of bovine viral diarrhea disease virus 1 virus-like particles and 
evaluation of its immunogenicity in a guinea pig model].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao S(1), Zhang Z(1), Tian Z(1), Wang J(1), DU J(1), Guan G(1), Yin H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, Lanzhou Veterinary 
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Lanzhou 730046, 
Gansu, China.
(2)Jiangsu Co-innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Important Animal 
Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, Yangzhou 225009, Jiangsu, China.

In order to obtain virus-like particles (VLPs) for prevention of bovine viral 
diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), the C-Erns-E1-E2 region was cloned into a 
pFastBacDaul vector for generating the recombinant Bacmid-BVDV-1 in DH10Bac 
Escherichia coli. The recombinant baculovirus Baculo-BVDV-1 was produced by 
transfecting the Sf9 cells with Bacmid-BVDV-1. The expressed protein and the 
assembled VLPs were determined by immunofluorescence, Western blotting and 
electron microscopy. Guinea pigs were immunized with inactivated VLPs coupled 
with the Montanide ISA-201 adjuvant. The immunogenicity of VLPs was evaluated by 
monitoring the humoral immune response with neutralizing antibody titer 
determination, as well as by analyzing the cell-mediated immune response with 
lymphocyte proliferation assay. The protective efficacy of VLPs was evaluated by 
challenging with 106 TCID50 virulent BVDV-1 strain AV69. The results showed that 
the recombinant Baculo-BVDV-1 efficiently expressed BVDV structural protein and 
form VLPs in infected Sf9 cells. The immunization of guinea pigs with VLPs 
resulted in a high titer (1:144) of neutralizing antibody, indicating an 
activated cellular immunity. Significantly lower viral RNA in the blood of the 
post-challenged immunized guinea pigs was observed. The successful preparation 
of BVDV VLPs with insect cell expression system and the observation of the 
associated immunogenicity may facilitate further development of a VLPs-based 
vaccine against BVD.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.210196
PMID: 35142124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 3;9(6):e98178. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098178. eCollection 
2014.

Directed evolution of human heavy chain variable domain (VH) using in vivo 
protein fitness filter.

Kim DS(1), Song HN(2), Nam HJ(1), Kim SG(1), Park YS(1), Park JC(1), Woo EJ(3), 
Lim HK(1).

Author information:
(1)Antibody Engineering, Mogam Biotechnology Research Institute, Yongin, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)BioMedical Proteomics Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience 
and Biotechnology, Daejeon, Republic of Korea; Department of Biotechnology and 
Bioinformatics, Korea University, Sejong, Republic of Korea.
(3)BioMedical Proteomics Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience 
and Biotechnology, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2014;9(7):e102631.

Human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains (VH) are promising scaffolds 
for antigen binding. However, VH is an unstable and aggregation-prone protein, 
hindering its use for therapeutic purposes. To evolve the VH domain, we 
performed in vivo protein solubility selection that linked antibiotic resistance 
to the protein folding quality control mechanism of the twin-arginine 
translocation pathway of E. coli. After screening a human germ-line VH library, 
95% of the VH proteins obtained were identified as VH3 family members; one VH 
protein, MG2x1, stood out among separate clones expressing individual VH 
variants. With further screening of combinatorial framework mutation library of 
MG2x1, we found a consistent bias toward substitution with tryptophan at the 
position of 50 and 58 in VH. Comparison of the crystal structures of the VH 
variants revealed that those substitutions with bulky side chain amino acids 
filled the cavity in the VH interface between heavy and light chains of the Fab 
arrangement along with the increased number of hydrogen bonds, decreased 
solvation energy, and increased negative charge. Accordingly, the engineered VH 
acquires an increased level of thermodynamic stability, reversible folding, and 
soluble expression. The library built with the VH variant as a scaffold was 
qualified as most of VH clones selected randomly were expressed as soluble form 
in E. coli regardless length of the combinatorial CDR. Furthermore, a 
non-aggregation feature of the selected VH conferred a free of humoral response 
in mice, even when administered together with adjuvant. As a result, this 
selection provides an alternative directed evolution pathway for unstable 
proteins, which are distinct from conventional methods based on the phage 
display.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098178
PMCID: PMC4043505
PMID: 24892548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: This work was funded by 
Green Cross Corporation. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all PLOS 
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


1376. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2004 Jan;70(1):370-6. doi: 
10.1128/AEM.70.1.370-376.2004.

Overproduction of trehalose: heterologous expression of Escherichia coli 
trehalose-6-phosphate synthase and trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase in 
Corynebacterium glutamicum.

Padilla L(1), Krämer R, Stephanopoulos G, Agosin E.

Author information:
(1)Departmento de Ingeniería Química y Bioprocesos, Escuela de Ingeniería, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Trehalose is a disaccharide with potential applications in the biotechnology and 
food industries. We propose a method for industrial production of trehalose, 
based on improved strains of Corynebacterium glutamicum. This paper describes 
the heterologous expression of Escherichia coli trehalose-synthesizing enzymes 
trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (OtsA) and trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase 
(OtsB) in C. glutamicum, as well as its impact on the trehalose biosynthetic 
rate and metabolic-flux distributions, during growth in a defined culture 
medium. The new recombinant strain showed a five- to sixfold increase in the 
activity of OtsAB pathway enzymes, compared to a control strain, as well as an 
almost fourfold increase in the trehalose excretion rate during the exponential 
growth phase and a twofold increase in the final titer of trehalose. The 
heterologous expression described resulted in a reduced specific glucose uptake 
rate and Krebs cycle flux, as well as reduced pentose pathway flux, a 
consequence of downregulated glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 
6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. The results proved the suitability of using 
the heterologous expression of Ots proteins in C. glutamicum to increase the 
trehalose biosynthetic rate and yield and suggest critical points for further 
improvement of trehalose overproduction in C. glutamicum.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.70.1.370-376.2004
PMCID: PMC321289
PMID: 14711665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2014;78(2):350-7. doi: 10.1080/09168451.2014.878222. 
Epub 2014 Apr 14.

Production of P-aminobenzoic acid by metabolically engineered escherichia coli.

Koma D(1), Yamanaka H, Moriyoshi K, Sakai K, Masuda T, Sato Y, Toida K, Ohmoto 
T.

Author information:
(1)a Osaka Municipal Technical Research Institute , Osaka , Japan.

The production of chemical compounds from renewable resources is an important 
issue in building a sustainable society. In this study, Escherichia coli was 
metabolically engineered by introducing T7lac promoter-controlled aroF(fbr), 
pabA, pabB, and pabC genes into the chromosome to overproduce para-aminobenzoic 
acid (PABA) from glucose. Elevating the copy number of chromosomal 
PT7lac-pabA-pabB distinctly increased the PABA titer, indicating that elevation 
of 4-amino-4-deoxychorismic acid synthesis is a significant factor in PABA 
production. The introduction of a counterpart derived from Corynebacterium 
efficiens, pabAB (ce), encoding a fused PabA and PabB protein, resulted in a 
considerable increase in the PABA titer. The introduction of more than two 
copies of PT7lac-pabAB (ce-mod), a codon-optimized pabAB (ce), into the 
chromosome of a strain that simultaneously overexpressed aroF(fbr) and pabC 
resulted in 5.1 mM PABA from 55.6 mM glucose (yield 9.2%). The generated strain 
produced 35 mM (4.8 g L(-1)) PABA from 167 mM glucose (yield 21.0%) in fed-batch 
culture.

DOI: 10.1080/09168451.2014.878222
PMID: 25036692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. J Clin Lab Anal. 2015 Jul;29(4):275-80. doi: 10.1002/jcla.21764. Epub 2014 Jul 
10.

Soluble Expression of Bladder Cancer Biomarker Matrix Metalloproteinase 1.

Jin X(1), Zhang D(2), Li H(1), Jin N(1), Liu T(3), Kong X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urinary Surgery, China-Japan Union Hospital, Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, China-Japan Union Hospital, Jilin University, 
Changchun 130033, China.
(3)The Retired People in Army Residents of Jilin, Changchun, China.

BACKGROUND: Matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1) has been shown as a novel unique 
biomarker of bladder cancer in urine. MMP1 can only be detected using 
conventional and time-consuming methods, such as ELISA and Western. Refolded 
MMP1 has been achieved and used in probe screen for many years, while there is 
no clinical application for MMP1 detection until now. Soluble expression of MMP1 
is necessary in urine detection.
METHODS: cDNA of MMP1 has been isolated from human embryonic kidney 293(HEK293) 
cells. The catalytic domain of MMP1 is expressed as fusion protein with 
Escherichia coli thioredoxin (TrxA). The 30 kDa recombinant proteins were 
purified by Ni-chelating chromatography. The activity of soluble MMP1 was 
determined and compared with refolded MMP1 by zymography.
RESULTS: Compared with refolded MMP1, TrxA can increase the solubility of MMP1. 
The soluble MMP1 has the same protein sequences with refolded MMP1 and increased 
1.54-fold of gelatin-degradation activities than refolded MMP1.
CONCLUSION: Successfully soluble expression of MMP1 has been achieved by fusion 
expression and will make progress in discovering specific molecular probes 
against MMP1.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcla.21764
PMCID: PMC6807089
PMID: 25043669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no conflict of 
interest exists.


1379. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2020 Sep;38(14):4364-4370. doi: 
10.1080/07391102.2019.1677502. Epub 2019 Oct 17.

Characterization of an engineered water-soluble variant of the full-length human 
mu opioid receptor.

Xi J(1), Xiao J(1), Perez-Aguilar JM(2)(3), Ping J(4), Johnson ATC Jr(4), Saven 
JG(2), Liu R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)School of Chemical Sciences, Meritorious Autonomous University of Puebla 
(BUAP), Puebla, Puebla, Mexico.
(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

A water-soluble variant of the transmembrane domain of the human mu opioid 
receptor (wsMOR-TM) was previously characterized. This study explored whether 
the full-length version of the engineered water-soluble receptor, (wsMOR-FL), 
could be overexpressed in Escherichia coli and if it would retain water 
solubility, binding capability and thermostability. wsMOR was over-expressed and 
purified in E. coli BL21(DE3) cells (EMD/Novagen) as we reported previously for 
the wsMOR-TM. Both native N and C termini were added back to the highly 
engineered wsMOR-TM. Six His-tag was added in the N terminus for purification 
purposes. The wsMOR-FL was characterized using atomic force microscope for its 
monomeric state, circular dichroism for its secondary structure and 
thermostability. Its binding with naltrexone is also determined. Compared to the 
native human MOR, wsMOR-FL displays similar helical secondary structure content 
and comparable affinity (nM) for the antagonist naltrexone. The secondary 
structure of the receptor remains stable within a wide range of pH (6-9). In 
contrast to the transmembrane portion, the secondary structure of full-length 
receptor tolerated a wide range of temperature (10-90 °C). The receptor remains 
predominantly as a monomer in solution, as directly imaged using atomic force 
microscopy. This study demonstrated that functional full-length water-soluble 
variant of human mu receptor can be over-expressed and purified using an E. coli 
over-expression system. This provides a novel tool for the investigation of 
structural and functional properties of the human MOR. N- and C-termini 
strengthened the thermostability of the protein in this specific water soluble 
variant. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2019.1677502
PMCID: PMC7162730
PMID: 31588852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest statement No conflict of 
interest needs to be reported.


1380. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2016 Dec;80(12):2467-2472. doi: 
10.1080/09168451.2016.1217144. Epub 2016 Aug 2.

Preparation of chicken IgY against recombinant E2 protein of bovine viral 
diarrhea virus (BVDV) and development of ELISA and ICA for BVDV detection.

Zhang X(1)(2), Diraviyam T(1), Li X(3), Yao G(2), Michael A(4).

Author information:
(1)a College of Veterinary Medicine , Northwest A&F University , Yangling , 
China.
(2)b College of Veterinary Medicine , Xinjiang Agricultural University , Urumqi 
, China.
(3)c Laipson Biological Information Technology Co., LTD , Luoyang , China.
(4)d PSG College of Arts & Science , Coimbatore , India.

Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects cattle and may lead to persistent 
infection (PI). The PI animals harbor BVDV throughout their life and become 
immune tolerant against BVDV. Thus, diagnosis of this virus in herd is highly 
important. Recombinant E2 protein expression (using pET-32a in Escherichia coli) 
was confirmed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting; then purified by Ni+ affinity 
chromatography. Chickens were immunized with BVDV-E2 protein, and IgY antibodies 
were extracted from egg yolk by PEG-6000. The peak titer of anti-BVDV-E2-IgY was 
1:128,000 after the fifth immunization. IgY-based enzyme-linked immuno sorbent 
assay (ELISA) and immunochromatographic assay (ICA) were further developed. 
Coincidence of ELISA and ICA test with RT-PCR was 95.45 and 90.91%, 
respectively. The anti-BVDV-E2 IgY could be used in routine screening of BVDV 
infection. Besides, it can also be applicable while licensing and/or using live 
vaccines; screening of imported products containing bovine serum and strong 
surveillance of BVDV outbreaks.

DOI: 10.1080/09168451.2016.1217144
PMID: 27484991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. J Biol Chem. 2010 Nov 26;285(48):37281-92. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.157008. Epub 
2010 Sep 24.

Substrates of the Arabidopsis thaliana protein isoaspartyl methyltransferase 1 
identified using phage display and biopanning.

Chen T(1), Nayak N, Majee SM, Lowenson J, Schäfermeyer KR, Eliopoulos AC, Lloyd 
TD, Dinkins R, Perry SE, Forsthoefel NR, Clarke SG, Vernon DM, Zhou ZS, Rejtar 
T, Downie AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky 
40546-0312, USA

The role of protein isoaspartyl methyltransferase (PIMT) in repairing a wide 
assortment of damaged proteins in a host of organisms has been inferred from the 
affinity of the enzyme for isoaspartyl residues in a plethora of amino acid 
contexts. The identification of PIMT target proteins in plant seeds, where the 
enzyme is highly active and proteome long-lived, has been hindered by large 
amounts of isoaspartate-containing storage proteins. Mature seed phage display 
libraries circumvented this problem. Inclusion of the PIMT co-substrate, 
S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet), during panning permitted PIMT to retain aged 
phage in greater numbers than controls lacking co-substrate or when PIMT protein 
binding was poisoned with S-adenosyl homocysteine. After four rounds, phage 
titer plateaued in AdoMet-containing pans, whereas titer declined in both 
controls. This strategy identified 17 in-frame PIMT target proteins, including a 
cupin-family protein similar to those identified previously using on-blot 
methylation. All recovered phage had at least one susceptible Asp or Asn 
residue. Five targets were recovered independently. Two in-frame targets were 
produced in Escherichia coli as recombinant proteins and shown by on-blot 
methylation to acquire isoAsp, becoming a PIMT target. Both gained isoAsp 
rapidly in solution upon thermal insult. Mutant analysis of plants deficient in 
any of three in-frame PIMT targets resulted in demonstrable phenotypes. An 
over-representation of clones encoding proteins involved in protein production 
suggests that the translational apparatus comprises a subgroup for which 
PIMT-mediated repair is vital for orthodox seed longevity. Impaired PIMT 
activity would hinder protein function in these targets, possibly resulting in 
poor seed performance.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.157008
PMCID: PMC2988334
PMID: 20870712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. J Biosci Bioeng. 2017 Mar;123(3):300-307. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2016.10.005. 
Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Exploration of the 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthases suitable for the 
creation of a robust isoprenoid biosynthesis system.

Kudoh K(1), Kubota G(2), Fujii R(2), Kawano Y(3), Ihara M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience and Food Production Science, Interdisciplinary 
Graduate School of Science and Technology, Shinshu University, 8304 
Minamiminowa, Nagano 399-4511, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Agriculture, Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Nagano 
399-4511, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and 
Technology, 8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Agriculture, Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Nagano 
399-4511, Japan; JST, PRESTO, 4-1-8 Honcho, Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012, Japan. 
Electronic address: m_ihara@shinshu-u.ac.jp.

1-Deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase (DXS) is a rate-limiting enzyme in the 
2-C-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway, which is responsible for 
production of two precursors of all isoprenoids, isopentenyl diphosphate and 
dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP). Previously, we attempted the overexpression 
of endogenous DXS in Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, and revealed that although the 
mRNA level was 4-fold higher, the DXS protein level was only 1.5-fold higher 
compared with those of the original strain, suggesting the lability of 
endogenous DXS protein. Therefore, for the creation of a robust isoprenoid 
synthesis system, it is necessary to build a novel MEP pathway by combining 
stable enzymes. In this study, we expressed 11 dxs genes from 9 organisms in 
Escherichia coli and analyzed their protein solubility. Furthermore, we purified 
the recombinant DXSes and evaluated their specific activities and protease 
tolerance, thermostability, and feedback inhibition tolerance. Among DXSes we 
examined in this study, the highest protein solubility was observed in 
Paracoccus aminophilus DXS (PaDXS). The DXS with the highest activity was one 
from Rhodobacter capsulatus (RcDXSA). The highest protease tolerance, 
thermostability, and tolerance of feedback inhibition were found in Bacillus 
subtilis DXS (BsDXS), RcDXSA, PaDXS, BsDXS, respectively. These DXSes can be 
potentially used for the design of robust isoprenoid synthesis system.

Copyright © 2016 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2016.10.005
PMID: 27856234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Vaccine. 2015 Jan 1;33(1):133-40. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.11.003. Epub 2014 
Nov 13.

Canine zona pellucida glycoprotein-3: up-scaled production, immunization 
strategy and its outcome on fertility.

Shrestha A(1), Srichandan S(2), Minhas V(1), Panda AK(2), Gupta SK(3).

Author information:
(1)Reproductive Cell Biology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna 
Asaf Ali Marg, New Delhi 110 067, India.
(2)Product Development Cell, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf Ali 
Marg, New Delhi 110 067, India.
(3)Reproductive Cell Biology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna 
Asaf Ali Marg, New Delhi 110 067, India. Electronic address: skgupta@nii.ac.in.

Zona pellucida (ZP) glycoproteins based contraceptive vaccines have been 
proposed for the management of wildlife population. In the present study, a 
fusion protein encompassing promiscuous T cell epitope of tetanus toxoid [TT; 
amino acid (aa) residues 830-844] followed by a dilysine linker and an 
ectodomain of dog ZP3 (ZP3; aa residues 23-348) without any affinity tag 
(TT-KK-ZP3) has been expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein was 
successfully produced in fed-batch fermentor and purified. The average yield of 
purified refolded protein was 12.20 ± 0.61 mg/2g wet cell pellet. Female FvB/J 
mice immunized with the varying doses of recombinant TT-KK-ZP3 supplemented with 
alum/PetGel A as adjuvants following a three injection schedule, showed dose 
dependent increase in serum IgG titer. Antibodies against TT-KK-ZP3 recognized 
native mouse/dog ZP and significantly inhibited mouse in-vitro fertilization 
(p=0.012). Immunized mice showed significant reduction in fertility (p<0.05). 
Higher antibody titers were associated with a decrease in the number of pups 
born to the immunized female mice. To reduce the number of injections, two 
injection schedule using various dose combinations of TT-KK-ZP3 supplemented 
with alum revealed lower immunogenicity and contraceptive efficacy as compared 
to the three injection schedule. To overcome this, CpG motif was included in 
addition to alum and both intraperitoneal and intranasal route of immunization 
following the two injection schedule was investigated. Inclusion of CpG 
significantly enhanced the antibody titer and improved contraceptive efficacy. 
In the mice immunized following intraperitoneal route, serum/vaginal IgG and in 
the mice immunized through intranasal route, vaginal IgA seemed to be important 
for curtailment in fertility. To conclude, the recombinant protein described 
herein may be a good candidate for developing contraceptive vaccine for the 
wildlife population management, in particular street dogs.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.11.003
PMID: 25448113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. Hunan Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2003 Dec;28(6):583-6.

[Expression and purification of human metallothionein-1E gene in Escherichia 
coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang F(1), He ZM, Sun Y.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South 
University, Changsha 410078, China.

OBJECTIVE: To express and purify human metallothionein-1E (MT-1E) fusion protein 
in vitro.
METHODS: The cDNA encoding human MT-1E was amplified by RT-PCR and cloned into 
prokaryotic expressing vector pQE40. After transforming it into Escherichia Coli 
M15, we determined the solubility of target protein by western blotting and 
investigated the IPTG inducing condition. The target protein was purified from 
lysates with Ni-NTA agarose column.
RESULTS: Western blotting analysis suggested that both the soluble and insoluble 
fusion protein existed in Escherichia Coli, but the insoluble was the main 
expression form. Induced by 1 mM IPTG, the expression of target protein 
increased with the prolongation of induction time. In our study, after being 
induced for 8h, the target protein accounted for about 32% of the total 
bacterial protein. Purified protein was obtained by affinity chromatography.
CONCLUSION: We have obtained purified human MT-1E fusion protein, which lays the 
foundation for the antibody preparation and further functional study.

PMID: 15804066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Exp Parasitol. 2011 Feb;127(2):346-50. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2010.08.015. Epub 
2010 Aug 27.

The role of Pvs28 in sporozoite development in Anopheles sinensis and its 
longevity in BALB/c mice.

Kim TS(1), Kim HH, Moon SU, Lee SS, Shin EH, Oh CM, Kang YJ, Kim DK, Sohn Y, Kim 
H, Lee HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, College of Medicine, Inha University, Incheon 
405-751, Republic of Korea.

To develop a vivax malaria vaccine for blocking malarial transmission, the 
ookinete surface protein Pvs28 was cloned from Korean malaria patients using 
polymerase chain reaction. The Pvs28 gene consists of 726bp and encodes 241 
amino acids. It was subcloned into the expression vector pQE30 and expressed in 
Escherichia coli. The expressed recombinant protein, rPvs28, has a molecular 
weight of about 28 kDa in SDS-PAGE analysis. A monoclonal antibody against 
rPvs28 was produced using BALB/c mice. It inhibited sporozoite development in 
Anopheles sinensis mosquitoes (n = 81) which is one of the malaria vectors in 
Korea, with relatively high antibody titer against rPv28 persisting for more 
than 6 months. These results indicate that rPvs28 induces an immune response in 
mice that effectively blocks sporozoite development in mosquitoes. Therefore it 
could be a vaccine candidate for preventing vivax malaria in Korea.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2010.08.015
PMID: 20801117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Microorganisms. 2022 Jan 14;10(1):172. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms10010172.

In Silico Prediction and Design of Uropathogenic Escherichia coli 
Alpha-Hemolysin Generate a Soluble and Hemolytic Recombinant Toxin.

Caetano BL(1), Domingos MO(1), da Silva MA(1), da Silva JCA(1), Polatto JM(1), 
Montoni F(2), Iwai LK(2), Pimenta DC(3), Vigerelli H(3), Vieira PCG(1), Ruiz 
RC(1), Patané JS(4), Piazza RMF(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, Av. Vital Brazil, São Paulo 
1500-05503-900, SP, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Toxinologia Aplicada, Instituto Butantan, Av. Vital Brazil, 
São Paulo 1500-05503-900, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Biofísica e Bioquímica, Instituto Butantan, Av. Vital Brazil, 
São Paulo 1500-05503-900, SP, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Ciclo Celular, Instituto Butantan, Av. Vital Brazil, São Paulo 
1500-05503-900, SP, Brazil.

The secretion of α-hemolysin by uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) is 
commonly associated with the severity of urinary tract infections, which makes 
it a predictor of poor prognosis among patients. Accordingly, this toxin has 
become a target for diagnostic tests and therapeutic interventions. However, 
there are several obstacles associated with the process of α-hemolysin 
purification, therefore limiting its utilization in scientific investigations. 
In order to overcome the problems associated with α-hemolysin expression, after 
in silico prediction, a 20.48 kDa soluble α-hemolysin recombinant denoted rHlyA 
was constructed. This recombinant is composed by a 182 amino acid sequence 
localized in the aa542-723 region of the toxin molecule. The antigenic 
determinants of the rHlyA were estimated by bioinformatics analysis taking into 
consideration the tertiary form of the toxin, epitope analysis tools, and 
solubility inference. The results indicated that rHlyA has three antigenic 
domains localized in the aa555-565, aa600-610, and aa674-717 regions. Functional 
investigation of rHlyA demonstrated that it has hemolytic activity against sheep 
red cells, but no cytotoxic effect against epithelial bladder cells. In summary, 
the results obtained in this study indicate that rHlyA is a soluble recombinant 
protein that can be used as a tool in studies that aim to understand the 
mechanisms involved in the hemolytic and cytotoxic activities of α-hemolysin 
produced by UPEC. In addition, rHlyA can be applied to generate monoclonal 
and/or polyclonal antibodies that can be utilized in the development of 
diagnostic tests and therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms10010172
PMCID: PMC8778037
PMID: 35056621

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest and 
the funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision 
to publish the results.


1387. 3 Biotech. 2021 Jun;11(6):295. doi: 10.1007/s13205-021-02773-0. Epub 2021 May 
24.

Overproduction of D-pantothenic acid via fermentation conditions optimization 
and isoleucine feeding from recombinant Escherichia coli W3110.

Zou SP(1)(2), Zhao K(1)(2), Wang ZJ(1)(2), Zhang B(1)(2), Liu ZQ(1)(2), Zheng 
YG(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center for Biomanufacturing 
of Chiral Chemicals, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, 310014 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Bioorganic Synthesis of Zhejiang Province, College of 
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, 
310014 People's Republic of China.

D-pantothenic acid (D-PA), as a crucial vitamin, is widely used in food, animal 
feed, cosmetics, and pharmaceutical industries. In our previous work, 
recombinant Escherichia coli W3110 for production of D-PA was constructed 
through metabolic pathway modification. In this study, to enhance D-PA 
production, statistical optimization techniques including Plackett-Burman (PB) 
design and Box-Behnken design (BBD) first were adopted to optimize the culture 
condition. The results showed that the glucose, β-alanine and (NH4)2SO4 have the 
most significant effects on D-PA biosynthesis. The response surface model based 
on BBD predicted that the optimal concentration is glucose 56.0 g/L, β-alanine 
2.25 g/L and (NH4)2SO4 11.8 g/L, the D-PA titer increases from 3.2 g/L to 
6.73 g/L shake flask fermentation. For the fed-batch fermentation in 5 L 
fermenter, the isoleucine feeding strategy greatly increased the titer and 
productivity of D-PA. As a result, titer (31.6 g/L) and productivity 
(13.2 g/L·d) of D-PA were achieved, they increased by 4.66 times and 2.65 times, 
respectively, compared with batch culture. At the same time, the accumulation of 
acetate reduced from 29.79 g/L to 8.55 g/L in the fed-batch fermentation. These 
results demonstrated that the optimization of medium composition and the cell 
growth rate are important to increase the concentration of D-PA for microbial 
fermentation. This work laid the foundation for further research on the 
application of D-PA microbial synthesis.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1007/s13205-021-02773-0.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-021-02773-0
PMCID: PMC8144260
PMID: 34136332

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest in the publication.


1388. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 Aug;160:66-72. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.04.002. Epub 
2019 Apr 15.

Improvement of soluble expression of GM-CSF in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli 
using chemical and molecular chaperones.

Malekian R(1), Sima S(1), Jahanian-Najafabadi A(1), Moazen F(1), Akbari V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Isfahan Pharmaceutical Research 
Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Isfahan Pharmaceutical Research 
Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran. Electronic address: v_akbari@pharm.mui.ac.ir.

The most common approaches to improve soluble expression of heterologous 
proteins are applications of molecular chaperones such as DnaK, DnaJ, GrpE, 
GroEL and GroES. The aim of present study was to enhance soluble expression of 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in Escherichia coli by 
different approaches including modification of cultivation and induction 
conditions, and thermally, genetically and chemically enhancement of expression 
of cellular chaperones. To genetically enhance amount of molecular chaperones, 
co-expression of pET28-GM-CSF and pKJE7 plasmids was performed. The soluble 
expressed protein was affinity purified and subjected to endotoxin removal. 
Co-expression with molecular chaperones significantly increased soluble 
expression of GM-CSF. Addition of chemical chaperones and osmolytes like NaCl 
(0.5 M), sucrose (0.5 M), sorbitol (0.5 M) and MgCl2 (1 mM) to growing media 
could improve solubility of GM-CSF. Biological activity of purified GM-CSF was 
confirmed based on its proliferative effect on HL-60 cell lines. The approach 
developed in the present study can be applied to improve soluble expression of 
other recombinant protein proteins.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.04.002
PMID: 30998976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. Indian J Clin Biochem. 2019 Jul;34(3):357-360. doi: 10.1007/s12291-019-0813-y. 
Epub 2019 Feb 8.

Induction of T7 Promoter at Higher Temperatures May Be Counterproductive.

Namdev P(1), Dar HY(2)(3), Srivastava RK(2)(3), Mondal R(4)(5), Anupam R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Biological Sciences, Dr. Harisingh 
Gour Central University, Sagar, M. P. 470003 India.
(2)Department of Zoology, School of Biological Sciences, Dr. Harisingh Gour 
Central University, Sagar, M. P. 470003 India.
(3)3Present Address: Department of Biotechnology, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, New Delhi, 110029 India.
(4)Department of Microbiology, School of Biological Sciences, Dr. Harisingh Gour 
Central University, Sagar, M. P. 470003 India.
(5)5Present Address: Bacteriology Division, National Institute for Research in 
Tuberculosis, Chennai, T. N. 600031 India.

Bacterial expression of recombinant proteins is the most popular and convenient 
method for obtaining large quantities of pure protein. The induction of T7 
promoter with isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) is widely used for 
expression of large quantities of proteins in Escherichia coli. It has been 
reported that basic T7 promoter is leaky and expresses cloned genes without 
induction. The effect of T7 promoter induction on expression of proteins at 
different temperature using flow cytometry has not yet been investigated. Green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) as a non-peptide tag can be used for protein 
solubility screening and for high-throughput optimization of expression 
conditions using flow cytometry. Therefore, flow cytometry was used to study the 
effect of induction on the expression of T7 promoter driven emerald GFP (emGFP) 
at various temperatures. We noticed that percentage of emGFP positive cells 
decreased instead of increasing upon induction at higher temperatures. Western 
blot analysis confirmed that the amount of total and soluble emGFP decreased in 
induced cells compared uninduced cells at higher temperatures. Our results 
indicate that induction of basic T7 promoter at higher temperature may not 
necessarily increase protein expression. While using a basic T7 promoter it is 
highly recommended to analyze the effect of induction on protein expression at 
various temperatures.

DOI: 10.1007/s12291-019-0813-y
PMCID: PMC6660524
PMID: 31391729

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestAll the author have 
contributed to the manuscript and consented for the submission and declare no 
conflict of interest.


1390. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Apr;23(2):94-6.

[Expression and purification of HIV-1 subtype C Gp120, and its antibodies 
preparation].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang HR(1), Feng X, Yu SQ, Zhang XG, Zhang XM, Chen GM, Li ZL, Zeng Y.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, National 
Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, Beijing 100052, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare HIV-1 subtype C Gp120 protein and to produce its 
polyclonal antibodies.
METHODS: A C-terminal fragment of gp120 gene was amplified by PCR from a plasmid 
expressing full-length HIV-1 subtype C gp160 gene. The length of the subtype C 
gp120 fragment was 612 nt and it encodes 204 amino acid residues. The resulting 
DNA construct was cloned into a prokaryotic expression vector (pET-30a) and 
recombinant pET-30a-gp120 was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) as an 
insoluble protein. The vector also contained a six-histidine (His6) tag at the 
C-terminus for convenient purification. To produce subtype C Gp120-specific 
polyclonal antibodies, New-Zealand rabbit was immunized with the purified Gp120 
protein. Serum samples were tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) 
to determine the level of antibodies. And Western blotting was used to further 
verify whether the polyclonal antibodies could specifically recognize subtype C 
Gp160 protein expressed in mammalian cells.
RESULTS: HIV-1 subtype C Gp120 protein was successfully acquired and the titer 
of its polyclonal antibodies was 1:204 800. The polyclonal antibodies 
efficiently recognized Subtype C Gp160 protein expressed in COS-1 cells.
CONCLUSION: HIV-1 subtype C Gp120 fusion protein with high purity was obtained 
and its corresponding polyclonal antibodies with high titer were produced.

PMID: 20104745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. J Biotechnol. 2008 Jul 31;135(4):319-25. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2008.05.004. 
Epub 2008 May 16.

Characterization of a cellulose binding domain from Clostridium cellulovorans 
endoglucanase-xylanase D and its use as a fusion partner for soluble protein 
expression in Escherichia coli.

Xu Y(1), Foong FC.

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology & Biomolecular Sciences, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia.

Different chimeric proteins combining the non-catalytic C-terminal putative 
cellulose binding domain of Clostridium cellulovorans endoglucanase-xylanase D 
(EngD) with its proline-threonine rich region PT-linker, PTCBD(EngD), cellulose 
binding domain of C. cellulovorans cellulose binding protein A, CBD(CbpA), 
cohesin domains Cip7, Coh6 and CipC1 from different clostridial species and 
recombinant antibody binding protein LG were constructed, expressed, purified 
and analyzed. The solubilities of chimeric proteins containing highly soluble 
domains Cip7, CipC1 and LG were not affected by fusion with PTCBD(EngD). 
Insoluble domain Coh6 was solubilized when fused with PTCBD(EngD). In contrast, 
fusion with CBD(CbpA) resulted in only a slight increase in solubility of Coh6 
and even decreased solubility of CipC1 greatly. PTCBD(EngD) and Cip7-PTCBD(EngD) 
were shown to bind regenerated commercial amorphous cellulose Cuprophan. The 
purity of Cip7-PTCBD(EngD) eluted from Cuprophan was comparable to that purified 
by conventional ion exchange chromatography. The results demonstrated that 
PTCBD(EngD) can serve as a bi-functional fusion tag for solubilization of fusion 
partners and as a domain for the immobilization, enrichment and purification of 
molecules or cells on regenerated amorphous cellulose.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2008.05.004
PMID: 18585812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. AMB Express. 2018 Feb 24;8(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s13568-018-0557-8.

Improvement of L-ornithine production by attenuation of argF in engineered 
Corynebacterium glutamicum S9114.

Zhang B(1), Yu M(1), Zhou Y(2), Ye BC(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of 
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China.
(2)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of 
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China. zhouying@ecust.edu.cn.
(3)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of 
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, 
Shanghai, 200237, China. bcye@ecust.edu.cn.
(4)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shihezi University, Xinjiang, 
832000, China. bcye@ecust.edu.cn.

L-Ornithine, a non-essential amino acid, has enormous industrial applications in 
food, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries. Currently, L-ornithine production 
is focused on microorganism fermentation using Escherichia coli or 
Corynebacterium glutamicum. In C. glutamicum, development of high L-ornithine 
producing C. glutamicum was achieved by deletion of argF, but was accompanied by 
growth deficiency and arginine auxotrophy. L-Arginine has been routinely added 
to solve this problem; however, this increases production cost and causes 
feedback inhibition of N-acetyl-L-glutamate kinase activity. To avoid the 
drawbacks of growth disturbance due to disruption of ArgF, strategies were 
adopted to attenuate its expression. Firstly, ribosome binding site substitution 
and start codon replacement were introduced to construct recombinant C. 
glutamiucm strains, which resulted in an undesirable L-ornithine production 
titer. Then, we inserted a terminator (rrnB) between argD and argF, which 
significantly improved L-ornithine production and relieved growth disturbance. 
Transcription analysis confirmed that a terminator can be used to downregulate 
expression of argF and simultaneously improve the transcriptional level of genes 
in front of argF. Using disparate terminators to attenuate expression of argF, 
an optimal strain (CO-9) with a T4 terminator produced 6.1 g/L of L-ornithine, 
which is 42.8% higher than that produced by strain CO-1, and is 11.2-fold higher 
than that of the parent CO strain. Insertion of terminators with gradient 
termination intensity can be a stable and powerful method to exert precise 
control of the expression level of argF in the development of L-ornithine 
producing strains, with potential applications in metabolic engineering and 
synthetic biology.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-018-0557-8
PMCID: PMC6890880
PMID: 29478233

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1393. Metab Eng. 2021 Mar;64:41-51. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2021.01.004. Epub 2021 Jan 
19.

Efficient production of oxidized terpenoids via engineering fusion proteins of 
terpene synthase and cytochrome P450.

Wang X(1), Pereira JH(2), Tsutakawa S(3), Fang X(4), Adams PD(5), Mukhopadhyay 
A(1), Lee TS(6).

Author information:
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA; Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.
(2)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA; Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.
(3)Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.
(4)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA; Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA; Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, 
University of California, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.
(5)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA; Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA; Department of Bioengineering, University 
of California, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.
(6)Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), 5885 Hollis St., Emeryville, CA, 94608, 
USA; Biological Systems & Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA. Electronic address: tslee@lbl.gov.

The functionalization of terpenes using cytochrome P450 enzymes is a versatile 
route to the production of useful derivatives that can be further converted to 
value-added products. Many terpenes are hydrophobic and volatile making their 
availability as a substrate for P450 enzymes significantly limited during 
microbial production. In this study, we developed a strategy to improve the 
accessibility of terpene molecules for the P450 reaction by linking terpene 
synthase and P450 together. As a model system, fusion proteins of 1,8-cineole 
synthase (CS) and P450cin were investigated and it showed an improved 
hydroxylation of the monoterpenoid 1,8-cineole up to 5.4-fold. Structural 
analysis of the CS-P450cin fusion proteins by SEC-SAXS indicated a dimer 
formation with preferred orientations of the active sites of the two domains. We 
also applied the enzyme fusion strategy to the oxidation of a sesquiterpene 
epi-isozizaene and the fusion enzymes significantly improved albaflavenol 
production in engineered E. coli. From the analysis of positive and negative 
examples of the fusion strategy, we proposed key factors in structure-based 
prediction and evaluation of fusion enzymes. Developing fusion enzymes for 
terpene synthase and P450 presents an efficient strategy toward oxidation of 
hydrophobic terpene compounds. This strategy could be widely applicable to 
improve the biosynthetic titer of the functionalized products from hydrophobic 
terpene intermediates.

Copyright © 2021 International Metabolic Engineering Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2021.01.004
PMCID: PMC7987753
PMID: 33482331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests TSL has a financial interest 
in Maple Bio.


1394. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Jun;71(2):195-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.02.004. Epub 
2010 Feb 10.

Escherichia coli expression, refolding and characterization of human laforin.

Castanheira P(1), Moreira S, Gama M, Faro C.

Author information:
(1)Biocant, Molecular Biotechnology Unit, Parque Tecnológico de Cantanhede, 
Núcleo 4, Lote 3, Cantanhede, Portugal. pedro.castanheira@biocant.pt

Laforin is a unique human dual-specificity phosphatase as it contains an amino 
terminal carbohydrate binding module (CBM). Laforin gene mutations lead to 
Lafora disease, a progressive myoclonus epilepsy with an early fatal issue. 
Previous attempts to produce recombinant laforin faced various difficulties, 
namely the appearance of protein inclusion bodies, the contamination with 
bacterial proteins and a high tendency of the protein to aggregate, despite the 
use of fusion tags to improve solubility and ease the purification process. In 
this work, we have expressed human laforin in Escherichia coli in the form of 
inclusion bodies devoid of any fusion tags. After a rapid dilution refolding 
step, the protein was purified by two chromatographic steps, yielding 5-7mg of 
purified protein per liter of bacterial culture. The purified protein was shown 
to have the kinetic characteristics of a dual-specificity phosphatase, and a 
functional carbohydrate binding module. With this protocol, we were able for the 
first time, to produce and purify laforin without fusion tags in the amounts 
traditionally needed for the crystallographic structural studies paving the way 
to the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of laforin activity and to the 
development of novel therapies for Lafora disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.02.004
PMID: 20152902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2016 Jun;179(4):671-83. doi: 10.1007/s12010-016-2023-x. 
Epub 2016 Mar 10.

Olive Recombinant Hydroperoxide Lyase, an Efficient Biocatalyst for Synthesis of 
Green Leaf Volatiles.

Jacopini S(1), Mariani M(1), de Caraffa VB(1), Gambotti C(1), Vincenti S(1), 
Desjobert JM(2), Muselli A(2), Costa J(2), Berti L(1), Maury J(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire Végétales, CNRS UMR6134 SPE, 
Université de Corse, Campus Grimaldi, BP52, 20250, Corte, France.
(2)Laboratoire de Chimie des Produits Naturels, CNRS UMR6134 SPE, Université de 
Corse, Campus Grimaldi, BP52, 20250, Corte, France.
(3)Laboratoire de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire Végétales, CNRS UMR6134 SPE, 
Université de Corse, Campus Grimaldi, BP52, 20250, Corte, France. 
maury@univ-corse.fr.

Volatile C6-aldehydes are the main contributors to the characteristic odor of 
plants known as "green note" and are widely used by the flavor industry. 
Biotechnological processes were developed to fulfill the high demand in 
C6-aldehydes in natural flavorants and odorants. Recombinant hydroperoxide 
lyases (HPLs) constitute an interesting alternative to overcome drawbacks 
arising from the use of HPL from plant extracts. Thus, olive recombinant 13-HPL 
was assayed as biocatalysts to produce C6-aldehydes. Firstly, a cDNA encoding 
for olive HPL of Leccino variety was isolated and cloned in pQE-30 expression 
vector. In order to improve the enzyme solubility, its chloroplast transit 
peptide was deleted. Both enzymes (HPL wild type and HPL deleted) were expressed 
into Escherichia coli strain M15, purified, characterized, and then used for 
bioconversion of 13-hydroperoxides of linoleic and linolenic acids. Aldehydes 
produced were extracted, then identified and quantified using gas chromatography 
and mass spectrometry. Recombinant HPL wild type (HPLwt) allowed producing 
5.61 mM of hexanal and 4.39 mM of 3Z-hexenal, corresponding to high conversion 
yields of 93.5 and 73 %, respectively. Using HPL deleted (HPLdel) instead of 
HPLwt failed to obtain greater quantities of hexanal or 3Z-hexenal. No 
undesirable products were formed, and no isomerization of 3Z-hexenal in 
2E-hexenal occurred. The olive recombinant HPLwt appears to be a promising 
efficient biocatalyst for the production of C6-aldehydes.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-016-2023-x
PMID: 26961190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2019 Jun;116(6):1392-1404. doi: 10.1002/bit.26941. Epub 2019 
Feb 11.

Fine-tuning the (2S)-naringenin synthetic pathway using an iterative 
high-throughput balancing strategy.

Zhou S(1)(2)(3), Lyu Y(1)(2)(3), Li H(1)(2), Koffas MAG(4)(5), Zhou J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education and School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(2)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Jiangsu Provisional Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing 
Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, New York.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, 
New York.

Metabolic engineering consistently demands to produce the maximum carbon and 
energy flux to target chemicals. To balance metabolic flux, gene expression 
levels of artificially synthesized pathways usually fine-tuned using 
multimodular optimization strategy. However, forward construction is an 
engineering conundrum because a vast number of possible pathway combinations 
need to be constructed and analyzed. Here, an iterative high-throughput 
balancing (IHTB) strategy was established to thoroughly fine-tune the 
(2S)-naringenin biosynthetic pathway. A series of gradient constitutive 
promoters from Escherichia coli were randomly cloned upstream of pathway genes, 
and the resulting library was screened using an ultraviolet 
spectrophotometry-fluorescence spectrophotometry high-throughput method, which 
was established based on the interactions between AlCl3 and (2S)-naringenin. The 
metabolic flux of the screened high-titer strains was analyzed and iterative 
rounds of screening were performed based on the analysis results. After several 
rounds, the metabolic flux of the (2S)-naringenin synthetic pathway was 
balanced, reaching a final titer of 191.9 mg/L with 29.2 mg/L p-coumaric acid 
accumulation. Chalcone synthase was speculated to be the rate-limiting enzyme 
because its expression level was closely related to the production of both 
(2S)-naringenin and p-coumaric acid. The established IHTB strategy can be used 
to efficiently balance multigene pathways, which will accelerate the development 
of efficient recombinant strains.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26941
PMID: 30684358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. Mol Biol Res Commun. 2019 Mar;8(1):17-26. doi: 10.22099/mbrc.2019.31801.1372.

In silico analysis of suitable signal peptides for secretion of a recombinant 
alcohol dehydrogenase with a key role in atorvastatin enzymatic synthesis.

Taheri-Anganeh M(1), Khatami SH(2), Jamali Z(3), Savardashtaki A(1), Ghasemi 
Y(4)(5), Mostafavi-Pour Z(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Medical Sciences and 
Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Recombinant Proteins Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry, School of 
Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Cardiovascular Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(5)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(6)Maternal-Fetal Medicine Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

An elevated cholesterol level might lead to cardiovascular disease (CVD). 
Statins block the cholesterol synthesis pathway in the liver. Atorvastatin is 
the most widespread statin worldwide and, its chemical synthesis requires toxic 
catalysts, resulting in environmental pollution. Hence, enzymatic synthesis of 
atorvastatin is desirable. This process could be done by Lactobacillus kefir 
alcohol dehydrogenase (LKADH). Therefore, recombinant enzyme secretion by 
Escherichia coli using signal peptides (SPs) might result in easy production and 
purification. To achieve this objective, we used some online bioinformatics web 
servers to evaluate the suitable SPs for translocation of LKADH into 
extracellular spaces. "Signal Peptide Website" and "UniProt" were utilized to 
retrieve the SPs and LKADH sequences. "SignalP 4.1" was used to determine SPs 
and their cleavage site location and the results were rechecked by "Philius". 
Physicochemical features of SPs were evaluated by "ProtParam", then solubility 
of their fusion with LKADH was assessed by "Protein-sol". Finally, secretion 
pathway and sub-cellular localization of the selected stable and soluble LKADH 
fusions were predicted by "PRED-TAT" and "ProtCompB". Amongst the 41 evaluated 
SPs, only LPTA_ECOLI, SUBF_BACSU, CHIS_BACSU, SACB_BACAM, CDGT_BACST and 
AMY_BACLI could translocate LKADH out of cytoplasm. The six selected SPs in the 
result section were suitable to design a soluble secretory LKADH that accelerate 
its scale-up production and might be useful in future experimental researches.

DOI: 10.22099/mbrc.2019.31801.1372
PMCID: PMC6510209
PMID: 31528640

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


1398. Bioconjug Chem. 2011 Mar 16;22(3):488-96. doi: 10.1021/bc100511k. Epub 2011 Feb 
14.

N-Linked glycosylation of antibody fragments in Escherichia coli.

Lizak C(1), Fan YY, Weber TC, Aebi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Institute of Microbiology, ETH Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich, 
Switzerland.

Glycosylation is the predominant protein modification to diversify the 
functionality of proteins. In particular, N-linked protein glycosylation can 
increase the biophysical and pharmacokinetic properties of therapeutic proteins. 
However, the major challenges in studying the consequences of protein 
glycosylation on a molecular level are caused by glycan heterogeneities of 
currently used eukaryotic expression systems, but the discovery of the N-linked 
protein glycosylation system in the ε-proteobacterium Campylobacter jejuni and 
its functional transfer to Escherichia coli opened up the possibility to produce 
glycoproteins in bacteria. Toward this goal, we elucidated whether antibody 
fragments, a potential class of therapeutic proteins, are amenable to bacterial 
N-linked glycosylation, thereby improving their biophysical properties. We 
describe a new strategy for glycoengineering and production of quantitative 
amounts of glycosylated scFv 3D5 at high purity. The analysis revealed the 
presence of a homogeneous N-glycan that significantly increased the stability 
and the solubility of the 3D5 antibody fragment. The process of bacterial 
N-linked glycosylation offers the possibility to specifically address and alter 
the biophysical properties of proteins.

DOI: 10.1021/bc100511k
PMID: 21319730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. Parasitol Res. 2008 May;102(6):1367-74. doi: 10.1007/s00436-008-0919-2. Epub 
2008 Mar 6.

Characterization of a profilin-like protein from Schistosoma japonicum, a 
potential new vaccine candidate.

Zhang SM(1), Lv ZY, Zhou HJ, Zhang LY, Yang LL, Yu X, Zheng H, Wu ZD.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Tropical Diseases Control, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Ministry of Education, Guangzhou, China.

The tegumental membrane of platyhelminth parasites is of crucial importance for 
modulation of the host response and parasite survival. A complementary 
deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) containing an open reading frame of 390 bp, which 
encodes a profilin-like tegumental protein with a theoretical isoelectric point 
of 6.02 and a molecular weight of 14.42 kDa, had been identified by 
bioinformatic analysis. The coding region of the cDNA was cloned into the 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-4T-1 and expressed in Escherichia coli. The 
purified recombinant protein named rSj15 was immunogenic and could elicit a high 
titer of antibody in mice. Western blot analysis revealed that the protein was 
differentially expressed during the different growth stages of Schistosoma 
japonicum. Immunohistochemical analysis localized the protein to the tegument 
and underlying tissue of the S. japonicum adult worm. The rSj15 could induce the 
expressions of IL-12 in the cultured mouse dendritic cell.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-008-0919-2
PMID: 18320225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2010 Mar;26(2):143-9.

[Cloning, prokaryotic expression and subcellular localization in the infected 
host cells of the duck plague virus DPV UL35 gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Cai MS(1), Cheng AC, Wang MS, Zhu DK, Luo QH, Zhao LC, Jia RY, Liu F, Chen XY.

Author information:
(1)Avian Diseases Research Center, College of Veterinary Medicine of Sichuan 
Agricultural University, Yaan 625014, China. caimingsheng@163.com

Based on the duck plague virus (DPV) UL35 gene sequence that our laboratory 
obtained (GenBank accession number EF643558), a pair of primers was designed 
using Oligo6.0 and primer5.0, then the UL35 gene was amplified from DPV CHv 
strain genomic DNA and cloned into the pMD18-T to construct a clone plasmid 
pMD18-T-UL35. After identification of the pMD18-T-UL35 by PCR amplification and 
restriction digestion, the fragment of the UL35 gene was subcloned into the 
prokaryotic expression vector pET-32a(+). The resultant recombinant plasmid 
pET-32a(+)-UL35 was then transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3) strain and 
optimally-expressed under the induction of 1.0 mmol/L IPTG at 34 degrees C for 5 
hours. SDS-PAGE analysis showed the recombinant protein (VP26) had a molecular 
weight of about 33KDa and accounted for 32.3% of total bacterial protein by gel 
scanning. The protein was then purified by Ni(2+)-affinity chromatography and 
used to immunize rabbit for producing the VP26 anti-serum and its antibody titer 
was up to 1:32 detected by agar diffusion reaction. After the IgG of the 
polyclonal antibodies was purified by High-Q anion-exchange chromatography, 
Western blot analysis indicated that the IgG had specific reaction with the 
VP26. Moreover, the subcellular localization detection was observed using 
immunofluorescence technique. The results showed that the specific fluorescences 
appeared relatively few in nucleus in 2 to 8 hours and increased gradually in 12 
to 36 hours and eventually reached to the maximum, which aggregated in the spot 
region of the nucleus after the duck embryo fibroblast (DEF) were infected by 
DPV. However, there were only a small amount of specific fluorescences in the 
cytoplasm in 12 hours and increased with the extension of infection time in 24 
to 48 hours. The specific fluorescences finally reached to the maximum in the 
cytoplasm in 72 hours. The results provided significant data for furthering the 
study on the function of DPV UL35 gene.

PMID: 20480644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Jun;110:159-64. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.03.004. Epub 
2015 Mar 14.

Positional effects of fusion partners on the yield and solubility of MBP fusion 
proteins.

Raran-Kurussi S(1), Keefe K(1), Waugh DS(2).

Author information:
(1)Protein Engineering Section, Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.
(2)Protein Engineering Section, Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21702, USA. 
Electronic address: waughd@mail.nih.gov.

Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) is exceptionally effective at 
promoting the solubility of its fusion partners. However, there are conflicting 
reports in the literature claiming that (1) MBP is an effective solubility 
enhancer only when it is joined to the N-terminus of an aggregation-prone 
passenger protein, and (2) MBP is equally effective when fused to either end of 
the passenger. Here, we endeavor to resolve this controversy by comparing the 
solubility of a diverse set of MBP fusion proteins that, unlike those analyzed 
in previous studies, are identical in every way except for the order of the two 
domains. The results indicate that fusion proteins with an N-terminal MBP 
provide an excellent solubility advantage along with more robust expression when 
compared to analogous fusions in which MBP is the C-terminal fusion partner. We 
find that only intrinsically soluble passenger proteins (i.e., those not 
requiring a solubility enhancer) are produced as soluble fusions when they 
precede MBP. We also report that even subtle differences in inter-domain linker 
sequences can influence the solubility of fusion proteins.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.03.004
PMCID: PMC4393804
PMID: 25782741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2009 Dec;27(6):534-6.

[Construction of DNA vaccine pcDNA3.1(+)/tetraspanin 2-A against Schistosoma 
japonicum and its immune-protective effect in mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang P(1), Zhang WN, Ren CP, Liu M, Shen JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 
230032, China.

Tetraspanin 2-A (SjTsp2-A) gene was amplified by PCR. pcDNA3.1(+)/SjTsp2-A 
recombinant plasmids were constructed and transformed into E. coli DH5alpha. 
Twenty four BALB/c mice were randomly divided into pcDNA3.1(+)/ -SjTsp2-A group 
(A), pcDNA3.1(+)/SjGST group (B) and pcDNA3.1(+) group (C). Each mouse was 
injected through musculus quadriceps femoris by three times (two weeks interval) 
respectively with 100 microg pcDNA3.1(+)/SjTsp2-A, pcDNA3.1 (+)/SjGST, or 
pcDNA3.1(+). At two weeks after the final inoculation, mice were each challenged 
by 40 +/- 2 cercariae of S. japonicum. Forty-five days after infection, all mice 
were sacrificed, the number of worms collected and eggs in liver tissue was 
counted. Anti-pcDNA3.1(+)/SjTsp2-A antibody was detected by ELISA and protein 
expression in quadriceps muscle by immunohistochemical staining. The worm 
reduction rate (44.4%) and egg reduction rate (28.4%) of group A was higher than 
those of group B and C (P < 0.05), but no significant difference between groups 
B (3.9%, 19.3%) and C. Higher antibody titer (1:25 600) was detected in sera of 
group A. Immunohistochemistry analysis showed an expression of specific antigens 
in quadriceps muscles of groups A and B. The DNA candidate vaccine induces 
partial protective immunity against S japonicum in BALB/c mice.

PMID: 20232641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. PLoS One. 2020 Jul 23;15(7):e0235853. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0235853. 
eCollection 2020.

An efficient ORF selection system for DNA fragment libraries based on split 
beta-lactamase complementation.

Verma V(1), Joshi G(1), Gupta A(1)(2), Chaudhary VK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Innovation in Infectious Disease Research, Education and Training 
(CIIDRET), University of Delhi South Campus, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Delhi South Campus, New Delhi, 
India.

PCR-based amplification of annotated genes has allowed construction of 
expression clones at genome-scale using classical and recombination-based 
cloning technologies. However, genome-scale expression and purification of 
proteins for down-stream applications is often limited by challenges such as 
poor expression, low solubility, large size of multi-domain proteins, etc. 
Alternatively, DNA fragment libraries in expression vectors can serve as the 
source of protein fragments with each fragment encompassing a function of its 
whole protein counterpart. However, the random DNA fragmentation and cloning 
result in only 1 out of 18 clones being in the correct open-reading frame (ORF), 
thus, reducing the overall efficiency of the system. This necessitates the 
selection of correct ORF before expressing the protein fragments. This paper 
describes a highly efficient ORF selection system for DNA fragment libraries, 
which is based on split beta-lactamase protein fragment complementation. The 
system has been designed to allow seamless transfer of selected DNA fragment 
libraries into any downstream vector systems using a restriction enzyme-free 
cloning strategy. The strategy has been applied for the selection of ORF using 
model constructs to show near 100% selection of the clone encoding correct ORF. 
The system has been further validated by construction of an ORF-selected DNA 
fragment library of 30 genes of M. tuberculosis. Further, we have successfully 
demonstrated the cytosolic expression of ORF-selected protein fragments in E. 
coli.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0235853
PMCID: PMC7377443
PMID: 32701967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


1404. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 3;10(2):e0117099. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0117099. 
eCollection 2015.

An efficient strategy for heterologous expression and purification of active 
peptide hainantoxin-IV.

Zhang H(1), Huang PF(1), Meng E(2), Li WY(2), Zhou L(1), Zhu LY(2), Wu L(2), Li 
MJ(1), Liang SP(1), Zhang DY(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Protein Chemistry and Developmental Biology of the Ministry 
of Education, College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, Hunan 
410081, China.
(2)Research Center of Biological Information, College of Science, National 
University of Defense Technology, Changsha, Hunan 410073, China.

Hainantoxin-IV (HNTX-IV) from the venom of the spider Selenocosmia hainana is a 
potent antagonist that specifically inhibits the tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-S) 
sodium channels. The toxin peptide consists of 35 amino acids and adopts a 
typical inhibitory cystine knot (ICK) motif. To obtain adequate HNTX-IV peptides 
for further insight into the structure-activity relationships of the toxin, a 
novel strategy including cloning, expression and purification was developed in 
an E. coli expression system. For this purpose, a seamless restriction-free (RF) 
cloning method was employed for the construction of an expression vector to 
avoid introducing unwanted sequences into the target gene. Furthermore, the 
solubility of recombinant HNTX-IV could be promoted efficiently by the 
combination of a glutathione S-transferase (GST) tag and a small 
ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) tag. Finally, an affinity-chromatography-free 
purification strategy was developed by cut-off dialysis tubing combined with 
trichloroacetic acid (TCA) extraction. Further HPLC purification yielded 
recombinant, tag-free HNTX-IV with high yield and purity. The molecular weight 
of recombinant HNTX-IV (rHNTX-IV) is identical to its theoretical value 
according to Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption / Ionization Time of Flight Mass 
Spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) analysis. The recombinant toxin has similar activity 
(IC50 value of 120 nM) on the tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-S) sodium channels in 
adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons to native toxins. In the report, an 
efficient and cost-effective strategy for producing rHNTX-IV was developed, 
which paved the way for the further study of structure-activity relationships of 
rHNTX-IV and its pharmaceutical applications.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0117099
PMCID: PMC4315428
PMID: 25647561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1405. Mol Cells. 2019 Mar 31;42(3):262-269. doi: 10.14348/molcells.2019.2365. Epub 
2019 Feb 19.

Enhanced Expression and Functional Characterization of the Recombinant Putative 
Lysozyme-PMAP36 Fusion Protein.

Rao Z(1), Kim SY(1), Akanda MR(2)(3), Lee SJ(4), Jung ID(4), Park BY(2), 
Kamala-Kannan S(1)(5), Hur J(6), Park JH(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology, College of Environmental & Bioresources Sciences, 
Chonbuk National University, Iksan 54596, Korea.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine and Bio-safety Research Institute, Chonbuk 
National University, Iksan 54596, Korea.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Sylhet Agricultural University, 
Sylhet 3100, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Immunology, Laboratory of Dendritic Cell Differentiation and 
Regulation, School of Medicine, Konkuk University, Chungju 27478, Korea.
(5)Advanced Institute of Environment and Bioscience, College of Environmental & 
Bioresources Sciences, Chonbuk National University, Iksan 54596, Korea.
(6)Veterinary Public Health, College of Veterinary Medicine, Chonbuk National 
University, Iksan 54596, Korea.
(7)Safety, Environment and Life Science Institute, College of Environmental and 
Bioresources Sciences, Chonbuk National University, Iksan 54596, Korea.

The porcine myeloid antimicrobial peptide (PMAP), one of the cathelicidin family 
members, contains small cationic peptides with amphipathic properties. We used a 
putative lysozyme originated from the bacteriophage P22 (P22 lysozyme) as a 
fusion partner, which was connected to the N-terminus of the PMAP36 peptide, to 
markedly increase the expression levels of recombinant PMAP36. The PMAP36-P22 
lysozyme fusion protein with high solubility was produced in Escherichia coli. 
The final purified yield was approximately 1.8 mg/L. The purified PMAP36-P22 
lysozyme fusion protein exhibited antimicrobial activity against both 
Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella 
enterica serovar Typhimurium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Bacillus subtilis). 
Furthermore, we estimated its hemolytic activity against pig erythrocytes as 6% 
at the high concentration (128 μM) of the PMAP36-P22 lysozyme fusion protein. 
Compared with the PMAP36 peptide (12%), our fusion protein exhibited half of the 
hemolytic activity. Overall, our recombinant PMAP36-P22 lysozyme fusion protein 
sustained the antimicrobial activity with the lower hemolytic activity 
associated with the synthetic PMAP36 peptide. This study suggests that the 
PMAP36-P22 lysozyme fusion system could be a crucial addition to the plethora of 
novel antimicrobials.

DOI: 10.14348/molcells.2019.2365
PMCID: PMC6449713
PMID: 30841024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2016 Aug 5;23(8):689-97. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00209-16. Print 
2016 Aug.

Development and Characterization of Monoclonal Antibodies to Yellow Fever Virus 
and Application in Antigen Detection and IgM Capture Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent 
Assay.

Adungo F(1), Yu F(2), Kamau D(3), Inoue S(3), Hayasaka D(3), Posadas-Herrera 
G(3), Sang R(4), Mwau M(4), Morita K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nagasaki University, 
Nagasaki, Japan Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki University, 
Nagasaki, Japan Kenya Medical Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya.
(2)Department of Virology, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nagasaki University, 
Nagasaki, Japan yufuxun@yahoo.com moritak@nagasaki-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Virology, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nagasaki University, 
Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)Kenya Medical Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya.

Yellow fever (YF) is an acute hemorrhagic viral infection transmitted by 
mosquitoes in Africa and South America. The major challenge in YF disease 
detection and confirmation of outbreaks in Africa is the limited availability of 
reference laboratories and the persistent lack of access to diagnostic tests. We 
used wild-type YF virus sequences to generate recombinant envelope protein in an 
Escherichia coli expression system. Both the recombinant protein and sucrose 
gradient-purified YF vaccine virus 17D (YF-17D) were used to immunize BALB/c 
mice to generate monoclonal antibodies (MAbs). Eight MAbs were established and 
systematically characterized by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA), Western blot analysis, and immunofluorescence assay (IFA). The 
established MAbs showed strong reactivity with wild-type YF virus and 
recombinant protein with no detectable cross-reactivity to dengue virus or 
Japanese encephalitis virus. Epitope mapping showed strong binding of three MAbs 
to amino acid positions 1 to 51, while two MAbs mapped to amino acid positions 
52 to 135 of the envelope protein. The remaining three MAbs did not show 
reactivity to envelope fragments. The established MAbs exert no neutralization 
against wild-type YF and 17D viruses (titer of <10 for both strains). The 
applicability of MAbs 8H3 and 3F4 was further evaluated using IgM capture ELISA. 
A total of 49 serum samples were analyzed, among which 12 positive patient and 
vaccinee samples were correctly identified. Using serum samples that were 2-fold 
serially diluted, the IgM capture ELISA was able to detect all YF-positive 
samples. Furthermore, MAb-based antigen detection ELISA enabled the detection of 
virus in culture supernatants containing titers of about 1,000 focus-forming 
units.

Copyright © 2016 Adungo et al.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00209-16
PMCID: PMC4979174
PMID: 27307452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. FEBS J. 2018 May;285(10):1873-1885. doi: 10.1111/febs.14451. Epub 2018 Apr 14.

A spidroin-derived solubility tag enables controlled aggregation of a designed 
amyloid protein.

Sarr M(1), Kronqvist N(1), Chen G(1), Aleksis R(2), Purhonen P(3), Hebert H(3), 
Jaudzems K(2), Rising A(1)(4), Johansson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division for Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and 
Society, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Department of Physical Organic Chemistry, Latvian Institute of Organic 
Synthesis, Riga, Latvia.
(3)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, and School of 
Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute 
of Technology, Huddinge, Sweden.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Biochemistry, Swedish University of 
Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden.

Amyloidogenesis is associated with more than 30 diseases, but the molecular 
mechanisms involved in cell toxicity and fibril formation remain largely 
unknown. The inherent tendency of amyloid-forming proteins to aggregate renders 
expression, purification, and experimental studies challenging. NT* is a 
solubility tag derived from a spider silk protein that was recently introduced 
for the production of several aggregation-prone peptides and proteins at high 
yields. Herein, we investigate whether fusion to NT* can prevent amyloid fibril 
formation and enable controlled aggregation for experimental studies. As an 
example of an amyloidogenic protein, we chose the de novo-designed polypeptide 
β17. The fusion protein NT*-β17 was recombinantly expressed in Escherichia coli 
to produce high amounts of soluble and mostly monomeric protein. Structural 
analysis showed that β17 is kept in a largely unstructured conformation in 
fusion with NT*. After proteolytic release, β17 adopts a β-sheet conformation in 
a pH- and salt-dependent manner and assembles into amyloid-like fibrils. The 
ability of NT* to prevent premature aggregation and to enable structural studies 
of prefibrillar states may facilitate investigation of proteins involved in 
amyloid diseases.

© 2018 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.14451
PMID: 29604175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. PLoS Genet. 2014 Jul 24;10(7):e1004516. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004516. 
eCollection 2014 Jul.

An essential nonredundant role for mycobacterial DnaK in native protein folding.

Fay A(1), Glickman MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Program, Sloan Kettering Institute, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, New York, United States of America.
(2)Immunology Program, Sloan Kettering Institute, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, New York, United States of America; Division of 
Infectious Diseases, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, 
United States of America.

Protein chaperones are essential in all domains of life to prevent and resolve 
protein misfolding during translation and proteotoxic stress. HSP70 family 
chaperones, including E. coli DnaK, function in stress induced protein refolding 
and degradation, but are dispensable for cellular viability due to redundant 
chaperone systems that prevent global nascent peptide insolubility. However, the 
function of HSP70 chaperones in mycobacteria, a genus that includes multiple 
human pathogens, has not been examined. We find that mycobacterial DnaK is 
essential for cell growth and required for native protein folding in 
Mycobacterium smegmatis. Loss of DnaK is accompanied by proteotoxic collapse 
characterized by the accumulation of insoluble newly synthesized proteins. DnaK 
is required for solubility of large multimodular lipid synthases, including the 
essential lipid synthase FASI, and DnaK loss is accompanied by disruption of 
membrane structure and increased cell permeability. Trigger Factor is 
nonessential and has a minor role in native protein folding that is only evident 
in the absence of DnaK. In unstressed cells, DnaK localizes to multiple, dynamic 
foci, but relocalizes to focal protein aggregates during stationary phase or 
upon expression of aggregating peptides. Mycobacterial cells restart cell growth 
after proteotoxic stress by isolating persistent DnaK containing protein 
aggregates away from daughter cells. These results reveal unanticipated 
essential nonredunant roles for mycobacterial DnaK in mycobacteria and indicate 
that DnaK defines a unique susceptibility point in the mycobacterial 
proteostasis network.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004516
PMCID: PMC4109909
PMID: 25058675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


1409. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2009 Feb;74(2):221-5. doi: 10.1134/s000629790902014x.

Overexpression in Escherichia coli and purification of human fibroblast growth 
factor (FGF-2).

Gasparian ME(1), Elistratov PA, Drize NI, Nifontova IN, Dolgikh DA, Kirpichnikov 
MP.

Author information:
(1)Shemyakin and Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy 
of Sciences, Moscow, Russia. marine_gasparian@yahoo.com

Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) is a member of a large family of 
structurally related proteins that affect the growth, differentiation, 
migration, and survival of many cell types. The human FGF-2 gene (encoding 
residues 1-155) was synthesized by PCR from 20 oligonucleotides and cloned into 
plasmid pET-32a. A high expression level (1 g/liter) of a fused protein 
thioredoxin/FGF-2 was achieved in Escherichia coli strain BL21(DE3). The fusion 
protein was purified from the soluble fraction of cytoplasmic proteins on a 
Ni-NTA agarose column. After cleavage of the thioredoxin/FGF-2 fusion with 
recombinant human enteropeptidase light chain, the target protein FGF-2 was 
purified on a heparin-Sepharose column. The yield of FGF-2 without N- and 
C-terminal tags and with high activity was 100 mg per liter of cell culture. 
Mutations C78S and C96S in the amino acid sequence of the protein decreased 
FGF-2 dimer formation without affecting its solubility and biological activity.

DOI: 10.1134/s000629790902014x
PMID: 19267679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Protein Expr Purif. 2009 Nov;68(1):110-20. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.05.010. Epub 
2009 May 21.

HaloTag7: a genetically engineered tag that enhances bacterial expression of 
soluble proteins and improves protein purification.

Ohana RF(1), Encell LP, Zhao K, Simpson D, Slater MR, Urh M, Wood KV.

Author information:
(1)Promega Corporation, 2800 Woods Hollow Road, Madison, WI 53711, USA. 
rachel.ohana@promega.com

Over-expression and purification of soluble and functional proteins remain 
critical challenges for many aspects of biomolecular research. To address this, 
we have developed a novel protein tag, HaloTag7, engineered to enhance 
expression and solubility of recombinant proteins and to provide efficient 
protein purification coupled with tag removal. HaloTag7 was designed to bind 
rapidly and covalently with a unique synthetic linker to achieve an essentially 
irreversible attachment. The synthetic linker may be attached to a variety of 
entities such as fluorescent dyes and solid supports, permitting labeling of 
fusion proteins in cell lysates for expression screening, and efficient capture 
of fusion proteins onto a purification resin. The combination of covalent 
capture with rapid binding kinetics overcomes the equilibrium-based limitations 
associated with traditional affinity tags and enables efficient capture even at 
low expression levels. Following immobilization on the resin, the protein of 
interest is released by cleavage at an optimized TEV protease recognition site, 
leaving HaloTag7 bound to the resin and pure protein in solution. Evaluation of 
HaloTag7 for expression of 23 human proteins in Escherichia coli relative to 
MBP, GST and His(6)Tag revealed that 74% of the proteins were produced in 
soluble form when fused to HaloTag7 compared to 52%, 39% and 22%, respectively, 
for the other tags. Using a subset of the test panel, more proteins fused to 
HaloTag7 were successfully purified than with the other tags, and these proteins 
were of higher yield and purity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.05.010
PMID: 19464373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Mar;52(1):210-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.09.005. Epub 
2006 Sep 15.

Comparative expression study to increase the solubility of cold adapted Vibrio 
proteins in Escherichia coli.

Niiranen L(1), Espelid S, Karlsen CR, Mustonen M, Paulsen SM, Heikinheimo P, 
Willassen NP.

Author information:
(1)The Norwegian Structural Biology Centre (NorStruct) and Department of 
Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Tromsø, N-9037 Tromsø, Norway.

Functional and structural studies require gene overexpression and purification 
of soluble proteins. We wanted to express proteins from the psychrophilic 
bacterium Vibrio salmonicida in Escherichia coli, but encountered solubility 
problems. To improve the solubility of the proteins, we compared the effects of 
six N-terminal fusion proteins (Gb1, Z, thioredoxin, GST, MBP and NusA) and an 
N-terminal His6-tag. The selected test set included five proteins from the fish 
pathogen V. salmonicida and two related products from the mesophilic human 
pathogen Vibrio cholerae. We tested the expression in two different expression 
strains and at three different temperatures (16, 23 and 37 degrees C). His6-tag 
was the least effective tag, and these vector constructs were also difficult to 
transform. MBP and NusA performed best, expressing soluble proteins with all 
fusion partners in at least one of the cell types. In some cases MBP, GST and 
thioredoxin fusions resulted in products of incorrect size. The effect of 
temperature is complex: in most cases level of expression increased with 
temperature, whereas the effect on solubility was opposite. We found no clear 
connection between the preferred expression temperature of the protein and the 
temperature of the original host organism's natural habitat.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.09.005
PMID: 17064934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. J Immunother. 2003 Nov-Dec;26(6):461-7. doi: 10.1097/00002371-200311000-00001.

Pattern of gene expression and immune responses to Semenogelin 1 in chronic 
hematologic malignancies.

Zhang Y(1), Wang Z, Liu H, Giles FJ, Lim SH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Amarillo, Texas 79106, USA.

Normal testicular-specific proteins are frequently aberrantly expressed by tumor 
cells. Based on this, we have investigated Semenogelin 1, a major protein of 
human semen coagulum thought to be highly specific to seminal vesicles, in 
leukemic cells. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, 
Semenogelin 1 gene was frequently expressed in chronic myeloid leukemia (5 of 8, 
62.5%) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (5 of 12, 41.7%) but rarely in multiple 
myeloma (2 of 30, 6.7%). The gene was not expressed in bone marrow or peripheral 
blood from healthy donors. Semenogelin 1 expression is normally confined to the 
testis, suggesting that it is a novel Cancer-Testis (CT) antigen. Translation of 
the mRNA to Semenogelin 1 protein was confirmed by Western blot analysis of 
tumor cell lysates and by immunocytochemistry. The recombinant Semenogelin 1 
protein was used with a control Escherichia coli-derived recombinant protein in 
ELISA and Western blot analysis to show that high titer IgG antibodies against 
Semenogelin 1 were detected in some patients, suggesting the in vivo 
immunogenicity of the protein. Immune responses predicted gene expression by the 
leukemia cells. Semenogelin 1 was also frequently coexpressed with other CT 
antigens, Sperm protein 17 and SPAN-Xb. These results therefore indicate that 
Semenogelin 1 is a novel CT antigen capable of inducing B-cell responses in vivo 
in chronic leukemias.

DOI: 10.1097/00002371-200311000-00001
PMID: 14595213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2007 Sep 15;45(18):1279-83.

[Construction and identification of human bone morphogenetic protein-7 
recombinant adeno-associated virus type 2 vector and its expression in bone 
mesenchymal stem cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Kang Y(1), Liao WM, Sheng PY, Zhang LJ, Yuan XW, Lei L, Huang BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, the First Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Guangzhou 510080, China.

OBJECTIVES: To facilitate gene therapy research using recombinant 
adeno-associated virus type 2 (rAAV2) vector as gene transfer vehicle, and to 
construct a rAAV2 based vector carrying bone morphogenetic protein-7 (BMP7) and 
observe its expression in bone mesenchymal stem cells.
METHODS: The coding sequence (1.3 kb) of BMP7 was amplified by polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) from the pcDNA1.1(+) plasmid containing the human BMP-7 cDNA. 
After purified, the gene fragment was cloned into a plasmid pUC18 and termed 
plasmid pUC18-hBMP7. The recombinant pUC18-hBMP7 was digested by Kpn I and Sal I 
and further ligated to the pSNAV by T4DNA ligase. The resultant plasmid 
PSNAV-hBMP7 was transformed into DH5a Escherichia coli, and positive colonies 
were screened by PCR and digest with restriction enzyme to identify the correct 
recombinant clones. BHK-21 cells were transfected with the purified pSNAV-BMP7 
plasmid according to a standard calcium phosphate precipitation method. The 
cells were then cultured in selection media containing 800 micro g/ml G418 
(Gibco/BRL). G418-resistant BHK-21 cell clones were isolated and the integrity 
of hBMP7 gene was determined by PCR using the above PCR primers. To package the 
virus, stably transfected BHK-21 cells were subsequently infected with 
recombinant herpes simplex virus type 1 (rHSV-1). The collected cells were 
processed by chloroform treatment, PEG8000/NaCl precipitation and chloroform 
extraction for purification. The titer was determined using quantitative DNA dot 
blots and the purity was examined by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis. Following infection with rAAV2-BMP7 at multiplicities of 
infection of 1 x 10(5) vector genomes per cell and subsequent culture, MSCs were 
assessed qualitatively for BMP7 production.
RESULTS: Transient transfection showed an efficiency of 98.8% in MSCs. RT-PCR 
showed that MSCs had transcription of BMP7 that was enhanced by the gene 
transfer. BMP-7 expression in MSCs was identified by Western-blot.
CONCLUSIONS: The hBMP7 recombinant adeno-associated virus vector is successfully 
constructed. The present in vitro study demonstrates that rAAV2-BMP7 could 
infect MSCs.

PMID: 18067746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. Biotechnol Prog. 2021 Mar;37(2):e3108. doi: 10.1002/btpr.3108. Epub 2020 Dec 17.

Economic assessment of continuous processing for manufacturing of 
biotherapeutics.

Gupta P(1), Kateja N(1), Mishra S(1), Kaur H(1), Rathore AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New 
Delhi, India.

Continuous processing offers a promising approach to revolutionize 
biotherapeutics manufacturing as reflected in recent years. The current study 
offers a comparative economic assessment of batch and continuous processing for 
the production of biotherapeutic products. Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor 
(GCSF), a protein expressed in E. coli, and an IgG1 monoclonal antibody, were 
chosen as representatives of microbial and mammalian derived products for this 
assessment. Economic indicators-cost of goods (COGs), net present value (NPV), 
and payback time have been estimated for the assessment. For the case of GCSF, 
conversion from batch to integrated continuous manufacturing induced a $COGs/g 
reduction of 83% and 73% at clinical and commercial scales, respectively. For 
the case of mAb therapeutic, a 68% and 35% reduction in $COGs/g on translation 
from batch to continuous process was projected for clinical and commercial 
scales, respectively. Upstream mAb titer was also found to have a significant 
impact on the process economics. With increasing mAb titer, the $COG/g decreases 
in both operating modes. With titer increasing from 2 to 8 g/L, the $COG/g of 
batch process was reduced by 53%, and that of the continuous process was reduced 
by 63%. Cost savings in both the cases were attributed to increased 
productivity, efficient equipment and facility utilization, smaller facility 
footprint, and reduction in utilization of consumables like resin media and 
buffers actualized by the continuous processing platform. The current study 
quantifies the economic benefits associated with continuous processing and 
highlights its potential in reducing the manufacturing cost of biotherapeutics.

© 2020 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.3108
PMID: 33305493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Clin Lab. 2016 Aug 1;62(8):1579-1584. doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2016.160116.

Anti-cytoplasmic Autoantibodies in Hodgkin's Lymphoma.

Sennekamp J, Seelig HP.

BACKGROUND: A 42-year old male patient with anamnesis of bronchial asthma 
presented himself with exertional dyspnea. High titer antibodies of cytoplasmic 
pattern in the indirect immunofluorescence test (IIFT) on HEp-2cells, not 
attributable to common specificities like anti-tRNA-synthetases, anti-signal 
recognition particle (SRP) or anti-ribosomal proteins (RPs) prompted the 
molecular biological approach for determination of antigen specificity. In-depth 
investigation of the patient's clinical settings revealed a lymphocyte 
predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma, which could be brought to complete remission by 
chemotherapy.
METHODS: Immunoprecipitation of 35S-methionine labelled cell proteins, 
cDNA-library screening, sequencing of clones reactive with the patient serum, 
and expression of recombinant candidate proteins in E. coli, their purification, 
and western blotting were performed to verify and confirm the antibody 
specificities.
RESULTS: The patient's autoantibodies reacted with the three 
insulin-growth-factor-2-RNA binding proteins (IGF2BP1-3) and a rare centromere 
protein (CNP27). The antibody titer determined by IIFT declined from initially 
1:3000 to 1:800 five years after successful therapy of the Hodgkin's lymphoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Anti-cytoplasmic antibodies, detectable by conventional IIFT, 
mainly belonging to the category of anti-tRNA-synthetases (e.g. anti-Jo1), SRP 
or RPs are in the first instance suspicious for systemic autoimmune rheumatic 
diseases (myopathies, interstitial lung disease). Their association with 
Hodgkin's lymphoma has been described only once in association with anti-Jo 
1-syndrome [1]. The existence of anti-cytoplasmic antibodies of different 
specificities, demonstrated in this patient, may alert the laboratory's 
attention to provide the clinician with diagnostically relevant information 
beyond the perspective of systemic autoimmune rheumatic diseases.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2016.160116
PMID: 28164609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. Front Microbiol. 2020 Feb 6;11:141. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00141. eCollection 
2020.

Expression, Purification and Characterization of the Hepatitis E Virus 
Like-Particles in the Pichia pastoris.

Gupta J(1), Kaul S(1)(2), Srivastava A(1), Kaushik N(3)(4), Ghosh S(5), Sharma 
C(3), Batra G(3), Banerjee M(5), Shalimar(6), Nayak B(6), Ranjith-Kumar 
CT(1)(7), Surjit M(1).

Author information:
(1)Virology Laboratory, Vaccine and Infectious Disease Research Centre, 
Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, NCR Biotech Science 
Cluster, Faridabad, India.
(2)International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi, 
India.
(3)Centre for Bio-Design and Diagnostics, Translational Health Science and 
Technology Institute, NCR Biotech Science Cluster, Faridabad, India.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Manipal University, Manipal, India.
(5)Kusuma School of Biological Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, 
New Delhi, India.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.
(7)University School of Biotechnology, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha 
University, New Delhi, India.

Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is associated with acute hepatitis disease, which may 
lead to chronic disease in immunocompromised individuals. The disease is 
particularly severe among pregnant women (20-30% mortality). The only licensed 
vaccine against HEV, which is available in China, is the Escherichia coli 
purified recombinant virus-like particles (VLPs) encompassing the 368-660 amino 
acids (aa) of the viral ORF2 protein. The viral capsid is formed by the ORF2 
protein, which harbors three glycosylation sites. Baculo virus expression system 
has been employed to generate a glycosylated VLP, which encompasses 112-608aa of 
the ORF2 protein. Here, we sought to produce a recombinant VLP containing 
112-608aa of the ORF2 protein in Pichia pastoris (P. pastoris) expression 
system. The cDNA sequence encoding 112-608aa of the ORF2 protein was fused with 
the α-mating factor secretion signal coding sequence (for release of the fusion 
protein to the culture medium) and cloned into the yeast vector pPICZα. Optimum 
expression of recombinant protein was obtained at 72 h induction in 1.5% 
methanol using inoculum density (A600) of 80 and at pH-3.0 of the culture 
medium. Identity of the purified protein was confirmed by mass spectrometry 
analysis. Further studies revealed the glycosylation pattern and VLP nature of 
the purified protein. Immunization of BALB/c mice with these VLPs induced potent 
immune response as evidenced by the high ORF2 specific IgG titer and augmented 
splenocyte proliferation in a dose dependent manner. 112-608aa ORF2 VLPs 
produced in P. pastoris appears to be a suitable candidate for development of 
diagnostic and prophylactic reagents against the hepatitis E.

Copyright © 2020 Gupta, Kaul, Srivastava, Kaushik, Ghosh, Sharma, Batra, 
Banerjee, Shalimar, Nayak, Ranjith-Kumar and Surjit.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00141
PMCID: PMC7017414
PMID: 32117160


1417. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2020;20(8):951-962. doi: 
10.2174/1871520620666200331101209.

In Vitro Inhibitory Effect of Recombinant Human Calprotectin on Nalm6 Leukemia 
Cell Line.

Charkhizadeh S(1), Imani M(2), Gheibi N(3), Shabaani F(3), Nikpajouh A(4), 
Rezvany MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Faculty of Allied Medicine, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Urmia University, 
Urmia, Iran.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Qazvin University of Medical 
Sciences, Ghazvin, Iran.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Rajaie Cardiovascular Medical and Research 
Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND & PURPOSE: In evaluating new drugs for the treatment of various types 
of cancer, investigations have been made to discover a variety of anti-tumor 
compounds with less side effects on normal cells. Investigations have shown that 
the heterodimers S100A8 and S100A9 inhibit the enzyme casein kinase 2 and then 
prevent the activation of the E7 oncoprotein. Therefore, the aim of this study 
was to evaluate the effect of calprotectin as an antitumor compound on the Nalm6 
(B cell precursor leukemia cell line).
MATERIALS & METHODS: Transformation of genes encoding S100A8 and S100A9 human, 
designed in the pQE32 plasmid, was performed by the thermal shock method into E. 
coli M15 bacteria. After bacterial growth in LB medium, the expression of two 
S100A8 and S100A9 subunits, the solubility of the protein by SDS-PAGE method was 
determined. Finally, the S100A8 / A9 complex was equally placed in the 
microtube. In the next step, the cytotoxic effects of calprotectin produced on 
the Nalm6 cell line were evaluated using the wst1 test. Then, the apoptosis in 
these cells was measured using flow cytometry methods with Annexin-V coloration.
RESULTS: In the current study, the results showed that the cytotoxic effects of 
Calprotectin are time and concentration- dependent. Therefore, it can reduce the 
tumor expression and had a beneficial effect by induced apoptosis in Nalm6 cell 
line.
CONCLUSION: Calprotectin has an anti-tumor effect on the Nalm6 cell line by 
increasing apoptosis.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1871520620666200331101209
PMID: 32228430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. Allergy. 2003 Apr;58(4):352-6. doi: 10.1034/j.1398-9995.2003.00033.x.

Cloning of a group 3 allergen from Blomia tropicalis mites.

Cheong N(1), Yang L, Lee BW, Chua KY.

Author information:
(1)Bioprocessing Technology Center, Faculty of Medicine, National University of 
Singapore, Republic of Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Blomia tropicalis is an important mite species in the tropics and 
subtropical regions of the world. It is well established that the allergen from 
this species of mite is one of the triggering factors for allergic asthma. The 
isolation and characterization of allergens in this mite species is desired to 
provide sensitive and specific reagents for diagnostic as well as therapeutic 
purposes.
METHODS: The SMART (Clontech Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA, USA) rapid 
amplification of complementary DNA ends (RACE cDNA amplification) method was 
used to isolate the putative Blo t 3 gene. Polymerase chain reactions (PCR) were 
performed in the presence of specific gene primers to obtain the full-length 
gene, and were confirmed by DNA sequencing. The putative gene was cloned into E. 
coli expression vector GST-4T-1 and expressed as a fusion protein with 
glutathione-S-transferase (GST). The allergenicity of the GST-Blo t 3 
recombinant protein was evaluated by human IgE enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) 
and skin pricks tests.
RESULTS: The full length Blo t 3 gene had 1138 base pairs, including a 105-bp 
long 5' nontranslated region, an ATG start codon at positions 106-108, and a 
stop codon TAA at positions 904-906, with an open reading frame coding for a 
polypeptide of 266 amino acids. Protein analysis revealed that it was a serine 
protease that had a prepro-mature structure that shared high sequence homology 
with group 3 dust mite allergens. The predicted molecular weight of the matured 
protein was approximately 23.8 kD with a theoretical pI of 8.87. The frequency 
of IgE reactivity of the recombinant protein showed up to 50% of IgE reactivity 
with mite allergic subjects but IgE titer was generally low.
CONCLUSION: We had isolated and fully characterized the cDNA encoding an 
important B. tropicalis allergen that was highly homologous to Group 3 dust mite 
allergens and we proposed that it should be designated as Blo t 3. Its clinical 
importance was implicated by the high frequency of IgE reactivity with allergic 
sera.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1398-9995.2003.00033.x
PMID: 12708986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. Bioinformatics. 2020 Mar 1;36(5):1445-1452. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btz773.

SOLart: a structure-based method to predict protein solubility and aggregation.

Hou Q(1)(2), Kwasigroch JM(1)(2), Rooman M(1)(2), Pucci F(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Université Libre de Bruxelles, 
Avenue Roosevelt 50, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Interuniversity Institute of Bioinformatics in Brussels, Boulevard du 
Triomphe, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(3)John von Neumann Institute for Computing, Jülich Supercomputer Centre, 
Forschungszentrum Jülich, 52428 Jülich, Germany.

MOTIVATION: The solubility of a protein is often decisive for its proper 
functioning. Lack of solubility is a major bottleneck in high-throughput 
structural genomic studies and in high-concentration protein production, and the 
formation of protein aggregates causes a wide variety of diseases. Since 
solubility measurements are time-consuming and expensive, there is a strong need 
for solubility prediction tools.
RESULTS: We have recently introduced solubility-dependent distance potentials 
that are able to unravel the role of residue-residue interactions in promoting 
or decreasing protein solubility. Here, we extended their construction by 
defining solubility-dependent potentials based on backbone torsion angles and 
solvent accessibility, and integrated them, together with other structure- and 
sequence-based features, into a random forest model trained on a set of 
Escherichia coli proteins with experimental structures and solubility values. We 
thus obtained the SOLart protein solubility predictor, whose most informative 
features turned out to be folding free energy differences computed from our 
solubility-dependent statistical potentials. SOLart performances are very good, 
with a Pearson correlation coefficient between experimental and predicted 
solubility values of almost 0.7 both in cross-validation on the training dataset 
and in an independent set of Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins. On test sets of 
modeled structures, only a limited drop in performance is observed. SOLart can 
thus be used with both high-resolution and low-resolution structures, and 
clearly outperforms state-of-art solubility predictors. It is available through 
a user-friendly webserver, which is easy to use by non-expert scientists.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The SOLart webserver is freely available at 
http://babylone.ulb.ac.be/SOLART/.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btz773
PMID: 31603466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. Metab Eng. 2016 Nov;38:274-284. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.09.003. Epub 2016 Sep 
16.

Enhanced protein and biochemical production using CRISPRi-based growth switches.

Li S(1), Jendresen CB(1), Grünberger A(2), Ronda C(1), Jensen SI(1), Noack S(2), 
Nielsen AT(3).

Author information:
(1)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical 
University of Denmark, Building 220, Kemitorvet, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.
(2)Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, IBG-1: Biotechnology, 52425, Jülich, Germany.
(3)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical 
University of Denmark, Building 220, Kemitorvet, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. 
Electronic address: atn@biosustain.dtu.dk.

Production of proteins and biochemicals in microbial cell factories is often 
limited by carbon and energy spent on excess biomass formation. To address this 
issue, we developed several genetic growth switches based on CRISPR interference 
technology. We demonstrate that growth of Escherichia coli can be controlled by 
repressing the DNA replication machinery, by targeting dnaA and oriC, or by 
blocking nucleotide synthesis through pyrF or thyA. This way, total GFP-protein 
production could be increased by up to 2.2-fold. Single-cell dynamic tracking in 
microfluidic systems was used to confirm functionality of the growth switches. 
Decoupling of growth from production of biochemicals was demonstrated for 
mevalonate, a precursor for isoprenoid compounds. Mass yield of mevalonate was 
increased by 41%, and production was maintained for more than 45h after 
activation of the pyrF-based growth switch. The developed methods represent a 
promising approach for increasing production yield and titer for proteins and 
biochemicals.

Copyright © 2016 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2016.09.003
PMID: 27647432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Methods. 2011 Sep;55(1):29-37. doi: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2011.08.002. Epub 2011 Aug 
10.

High throughput construction and small scale expression screening of multi-tag 
vectors in Escherichia coli.

Bird LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Structural Biology, Henry Wellcome Building for Genomic Medicine, 
University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK. 
louise@strubi.ox.ac.uk

A suite of protein fusion vectors is presented that has been designed so that 
nine separate fusion vectors can be constructed from one PCR product using 
InFusion™ cloning. These vectors in combination with a small scale Escherichia 
coli expression screen can be used to assess in parallel the effect of fusion 
tags on solubility. The vectors were tested with 20 target proteins and the 
results suggest that the vectors are useful both as a rescue strategy if the 
N-terminal hexa-histidine tagged construct does not express and also as part of 
a primary expression experiment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2011.08.002
PMID: 21856427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Microb Cell Fact. 2019 Jun 8;18(1):105. doi: 10.1186/s12934-019-1130-0.

Esterification of geraniol as a strategy for increasing product titre and 
specificity in engineered Escherichia coli.

Chacón MG(1), Marriott A(1), Kendrick EG(1), Styles MQ(1), Leak DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Bath, England, 
BA2 7AY, UK.
(2)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Bath, England, 
BA2 7AY, UK. djl36@bath.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Geraniol, an acyclic monoterpene alcohol, is found as a primary 
constituent in the essential oils of plants such as geranium, lemongrass and 
rose. The floral-like scent of geraniol has made it a popular constituent of 
flavour and fragrance products. Over recent decades biotechnology has made 
significant progress towards the development of industrial platforms for the 
production of commercially valuable monoterpenoids, such as geraniol, through 
expression of recombinant terpene biosynthetic pathways in microbial hosts. 
Titres, however, have been hindered due to the inherent toxicity of these 
compounds-which are often utilised for anti-microbial and anti-fungal functions 
in their host plant.
RESULTS: In this study we modified an Escherichia coli strain, engineered to 
express a heterologous mevalonate pathway, by replacement of the terpene 
synthase with a geraniol synthase from Ocimum basilicum for the production of 
geraniol, and co-expressed an alcohol acyltransferase (AAT) from Rosa hybrida 
for the specific acetylation of geraniol. The low water solubility of geranyl 
acetate facilitated its partition into the organic phase of a two-phase system, 
relieving the cellular toxicity attributed to the build-up of geraniol in the 
aqueous phase. In a partially optimised system this strain produced 4.8 g/L 
geranyl acetate (based on the aqueous volume) which, on a molar equivalent 
basis, represents the highest monoterpene titre achieved from microbial culture 
to date. It was also found that esterification of geraniol prevented 
bioconversion into other monoterpenoids, leading to a significant improvement in 
product specificity, with geranyl acetate being the sole product observed.
CONCLUSION: In this study we have shown that it is possible to both overcome the 
toxicity limit impeding the production of the monoterpene alcohol geraniol and 
mitigate product loss in culture through endogenous metabolism by using an in 
vivo esterification strategy. This strategy has resulted in the highest geraniol 
(equivalent) titres achieved from a microbial host, and presents esterification 
as a viable approach to increasing the titres obtained in microbial 
monoterpenoid production.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-019-1130-0
PMCID: PMC6556219
PMID: 31176369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1423. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Jul;60(1):82-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.03.019. Epub 
2008 Mar 30.

Expression, purification and crystallization of cysteine-rich human protein 
muskelin in Escherichia coli.

Kiedzierska A(1), Czepczynska H, Smietana K, Otlewski J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biotechnology, Laboratory of Protein Engineering, University of 
Wroclaw, Tamka 2, 50-137 Wroclaw, Poland.

The increasing interest in the structural arrangements and functional 
interdependencies of individual modules within large multidomain proteins 
requires the development of new methods allowing efficient production and 
purification of large human proteins. Heterologous expression in bacteria is 
still the most convenient and widely-used approach. However, most of the 
existing tools are not well suited to expression of cysteine-rich proteins in a 
native-like soluble form, and with the increasing protein size refolding may 
result in obtaining non-native conformations or improper disulfide bridging 
pattern. Here, we present an efficient method of expression and purification of 
muskelin, a large, multidomain, cysteine-rich eukaryotic protein involved in 
cell adhesion and regulation of cytoskeleton dynamics. Using a broad range of 
purification and solubility tags, expression strains and conditions we optimized 
the procedure to acquire a natively folded protein of crystallization-scale 
quantity and purity. The correct protein conformation and disulfide bonding were 
anticipated from the results of circular dichroism spectra and Ellman's assay. 
Successful crystallization trials are a step towards muskelin crystal-structure 
determination, while the optimized expression and purification procedure can 
easily be applied to produce other eukaryotic proteins in the bacterial 
expression system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.03.019
PMID: 18455433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Metab Eng. 2011 Mar;13(2):194-203. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2010.12.005. Epub 2011 
Jan 5.

Targeted proteomics for metabolic pathway optimization: application to terpene 
production.

Redding-Johanson AM(1), Batth TS, Chan R, Krupa R, Szmidt HL, Adams PD, Keasling 
JD, Lee TS, Mukhopadhyay A, Petzold CJ.

Author information:
(1)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Physical Biosciences Division, Joint 
BioEnergy Institute, Emeryville, CA 94608, USA.

Successful metabolic engineering relies on methodologies that aid assembly and 
optimization of novel pathways in microbes. Many different factors may 
contribute to pathway performance, and problems due to mRNA abundance, protein 
abundance, or enzymatic activity may not be evident by monitoring product 
titers. To this end, synthetic biologists and metabolic engineers utilize a 
variety of analytical methods to identify the parts of the pathway that limit 
production. In this study, targeted proteomics, via selected-reaction monitoring 
(SRM) mass spectrometry, was used to measure protein levels in Escherichia coli 
strains engineered to produce the sesquiterpene, amorpha-4,11-diene. From this 
analysis, two mevalonate pathway proteins, mevalonate kinase (MK) and 
phosphomevalonate kinase (PMK) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were identified as 
potential bottlenecks. Codon-optimization of the genes encoding MK and PMK and 
expression from a stronger promoter led to significantly improved MK and PMK 
protein levels and over three-fold improved final amorpha-4,11-diene titer (>500 
mg/L).

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2010.12.005
PMID: 21215324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Jan;33(1):123-33. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.09.003.

Expression and purification of the recombinant diphtheria fusion toxin DT388IL3 
for phase I clinical trials.

Urieto JO(1), Liu T, Black JH, Cohen KA, Hall PD, Willingham MC, Pennell LK, 
Hogge DE, Kreitman RJ, Frankel AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.

A genetically engineered fusion toxin targeted to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 
blasts was designed with the first 388 amino acid residues of diphtheria toxin 
with an H-M linker fused to human interleukin-3. The cDNA was subcloned in the 
pRK bacterial expression plasmid and used to transform BLR (DE3) Escherichia 
coli. A single transformed colony was grown in Superbroth with ampicillin; 
bacteria were centrifuged at an OD(650) of 1.3; master cell bank aliquots of 
bacteria in 30% glycerol/Superbroth were frozen and stored at -80 degrees C. 
Master cell bank bacteria were diluted 1500-fold into Superbroth and recombinant 
protein was induced with 1 mM IPTG at an OD(650) of 0.6. After two additional 
hours of fermentation, inclusion bodies were isolated, washed, and denatured in 
guanidine hydrochloride and dithioerythritol. Recombinant protein was refolded 
by diluted 100-fold in cold buffer with arginine and oxidized glutathione. After 
dialysis, purified protein was obtained after anion-exchange, size exclusion on 
FPLC, and polymyxin B affinity chromatography. The final material was filter 
sterilized, aseptically vialed, and stored at -80 degrees C. Seventy-five 3-L 
bacterial culture preparations were made and pooled for the AT-1 batch (568 mL) 
and twenty-four 3-L bacterial culture preparations were made and pooled for the 
AT-2 batch (169 mL). The final product was characterized by Coomassie Plus 
protein assay, Coomassie-stained SDS-PAGE, limulus amebocyte lysate endotoxin 
assay, human AML TF/H-ras cell cytotoxicity assay, sterility, tandem mass 
spectroscopy, IL3 receptor binding affinity, ADP ribosylation activity, 
inhibition of normal human CFU-GM, disulfide bond analysis, immunoblots, peptide 
mapping, stability, HPLC TSK3000, N-terminal sequencing, E. coli DNA 
contamination, C57BL/6 mouse toxicity, cynomolgus monkey toxicity, and 
immunohistochemistry. Yields were 25.7+/-5.6 mg/L bacterial culture of denatured 
fusion toxin. After refolding and chromatography, final yields were 20+/-11% or 
5 mg/L. Vialed product was sterile. Batches were in 0.25 M sodium chloride/5 mM 
Tris, pH 8, and had protein concentrations of 1.8-1.9 mg/mL. Purity by SDS-PAGE 
was 99+/-1%. Aggregates by HPLC were <1 %. Potency revealed a 48 h IC(50) of 6-8 
pM on TF/H-ras cells. Endotoxin levels were 1 eu/mg. The remaining chemical and 
biologic assays confirmed the purity, composition, and functional activities of 
the molecule. The LD(10) in mice was 250 microg/kg/day every other day for six 
doses. The MTD in monkeys was 60 microg/kg/day every other day for six doses. 
Drug did not react with tested frozen human tissue sections by 
immunohistochemistry. There was no evidence of loss of solubility, proteolysis 
aggregation, or loss of potency over 6 months at -80 and -20 degrees C. Further, 
the drug was stable at 4 and 25 degrees C in the plastic syringe and 
administration tubing for 24 h and at 37 degrees C in human serum for 24 h. The 
synthesis of this protein drug should be useful for production for clinical 
phase I/II clinical trials and may be suitable for other diphtheria fusion 
toxins indicated for clinical development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.09.003
PMID: 14680969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. J Biotechnol. 2010 Nov;150(3):380-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2010.09.940. Epub 
2010 Sep 18.

EspA is a novel fusion partner for expression of foreign proteins in Escherichia 
coli.

Cheng Y(1), Gu J, Wang HG, Yu S, Liu YQ, Ning YL, Zou QM, Yu XJ, Mao XH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medical 
Laboratory, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 400038, PR China.

Escherichia coli secreted protein A (EspA) is a component of the type 3 
secretion system (T3SS). The high level of expression when self-stimulated 
suggests that EspA may be used as a fusion partner. In the present study, EspA 
was used as a "fusion partner" to construct a fusion expression system, pEspA, 
in order to improve the expression and solubility of proteins from prokaryotes 
and eukaryotes. Target proteins were linked to the C-terminus of EspA by a 
linker containing a YAPQDP sequence, multiple cloning sites and an enterkinase 
cleavage site. Six proteins, IL-24, Stx2A1, Stx2B, S1, IntiminC300 and GFP, were 
expressed as EspA-fusion proteins using this vector. The expression level of 
each protein was enhanced by EspA and the majority of them (Stx2B, IntiminC300, 
GFP, Stx2A1, IL-24) were expressed in soluble form. EspA-fusion proteins can be 
purified by affinity chromatography (Sepharose chelated with EspA-specific 
monoclonal antibody) and by Ni(2+) affinity chromatography for they contain a 6× 
His tag at their C-terminus. In addition, IL-24 remains soluble and demonstrates 
certain anti-tumor activity after the removal of EspA by enterkinase. The EspA 
fusion expression system was efficient in enhancing expression levels and the 
solubility of target proteins.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2010.09.940
PMID: 20854850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. Sci China C Life Sci. 2009 Jan;52(1):80-7. doi: 10.1007/s11427-009-0001-z. Epub 
2009 Jan 19.

cDNA cloning and recombinant expression of the general odorant binding protein 
II from Spodoptera litura.

Jin F(1), Dong X, Xu X, Ren S.

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Biological Control, College of Natural 
Resources and Environment, South China Agricultural University, Ministry of 
Education, Guangzhou, 510642, China.

A cDNA encoding the general odorant binding protein II (GOBP II) was isolated 
from the antennae of Spodoptera litura (SlGOBP II, GenBank Accession No. 
EU086371) by homologous cloning and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). 
Sequencing and structural analyses revealed that the open reading frame (ORF) of 
SlGOBP II was 489 bp, encoding 162 amino acids with a predicted MW of 18.2 kD 
and pI of 5.72. SlGOPB II shared typical structural features of odorant binding 
proteins with other insects, including the six conservative cysteine residues. 
The deduced amino acid sequence of SlGOPB II shared significant identity with 
the GOBP II from S. frugiperda and S. exigua. RT-PCR and Northern blot analyses 
showed that SlGOBP II was specifically expressed in the antennae. cDNA encoding 
SlGOBP II was constructed into the pET-32a vector and the recombinant protein 
was highly expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) after induction with IPTG. 
SDS electrophoresis and Western blot analysis confirmed the molecular weight of 
the recombinant SIGOBPII i.e, 32 kD, which has a 6xHis tag at the N-terminus. 
The recombinant SlGOBP II was purified by single-step Ni-NTA affinity 
chromatography and used to raise antiserum in rabbits. ELISA showed that the 
titer of antiserum was 1:12800, while Western blot analysis showed that the 
recombinant SlGOBP II was recognized as anti-SlGOBP II antiserum.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-009-0001-z
PMID: 19152087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. Microb Pathog. 2003 Jan;34(1):27-37. doi: 10.1016/s0882-4010(02)00192-4.

Role of suilysin in pathogenesis of Streptococcus suis capsular serotype 2.

Lun S(1), Perez-Casal J, Connor W, Willson PJ.

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Infectious Disease Organization, University of Saskatchewan, 120 
Veterinary Road, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada S7N 5E3.

Three suilysin (SLY) knockout mutant strains of Streptococcus suis serotype 2 
were generated by allelic replacement from one North American and two European 
wild type strains. The mutants were characterized by Southern blot, Western blot 
and phenotyping. In vitro bactericidal testing showed that both wild type and 
SLY mutants were resistant to bactericidal factors in whole pig blood. To 
demonstrate the role of SLY during S. suis infection, four animal trials were 
carried out using young pigs. Either high dose (4 x 10(6)CFU/ml/pig) or low dose 
(0.5 x 10(6)CFU/ml/pig) live cell aerosol was applied to the pharynx. In one 
trial, a low challenge dose of North American strain SX332 and its isogenic 
sly(-) mutant strain (SX932) resulted in acute disease in 3/5 of pigs exposed to 
the wild type strain, while 5/5 of pigs exposed to the mutant strain survived 
the trial. In the repeat trial, 1/8 of pigs in wild type group and 6/8 of pigs 
in mutant group developed disease. The high dose trial with 332/932 pair showed 
that 4/8 pigs challenged with wild type and 5/8 of pigs challenged with mutant 
strain developed disease respectively. The third low dose trial, using European 
strain 31533 and its isogenic sly(-) mutant strain SX911, showed that 1/8 of 
pigs challenged with the wild type strain and 4/8 of pigs challenged with the 
corresponding mutant strain developed disease. All the diseased pigs showed 
fever, clinical signs and developed septicemia. S. suis was isolated from tissue 
samples such as brain, submandibular lymph node, lung, spleen, liver, heart or 
joint. Serum antibody titer against cell surface proteins changed little while 
the antibody titer against SLY increased only in the wild type group after 
challenge. sly gene was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The recombinant SLY 
(rSLY) protein showed 800 hemolysin units per microg protein. In vitro study 
showed that rSLY triggered TNFalpha production by human monocytes and IL-6 
production by pig pulmonary alveolar macrophages and monocytes. Thus, the 
results of this study suggest that SLY does not seem to be a critical virulence 
factor for S. suis serotype 2 respiratory infection, but by stimulating cytokine 
release it may play a role in innate immunity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0882-4010(02)00192-4
PMID: 12620382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. Eur J Biochem. 2001 Aug;268(15):4352-8. doi: 10.1046/j.1432-1327.2001.02357.x.

Improving solubility of catalytic domain of human beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 
1 through rationally designed amino acid replacements.

Malissard M(1), Berger EG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 1 (beta4gal-T1, EC 2.4.1.38) transfers galactose 
from UDP-galactose to free N-acetyl-D-glucosamine or bound 
N-acetyl-D-glucosamine-R. Soluble beta4gal-T1, purified from human milk has been 
refractory to structural studies by X-ray or NMR. In a previous study (Malissard 
et al. 1996, Eur. J. Biochem. 239, 340-348) we produced in the yeast 
Saccaromyces cerevisiae an N-deglycosylated form of soluble beta4gal-T1 that was 
much more homogeneous than the human enzyme, as it displayed only two isoforms 
when analysed by IEF as compared to 13 isoforms for the native beta4gal-T1. The 
propensity of recombinant beta4gal-T1 to aggregate at concentrations > 1 
mg.mL(-1) prevented structural and biophysical studies. In an attempt to produce 
a beta4gal-T1 form suitable for structural studies, we combined site-directed 
mutagenesis and heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. We produced a 
mutated form of the catalytic domain of beta4gal-T1 (sfbeta4gal-T1mut) in which 
seven mutations were introduced at nonconserved sites (A155E, N160K, M163T, 
A168T, T242N, N255D and A259T). Sfbeta4gal-T1mut was shown to be much more 
soluble than beta4gal-T1 expressed in S. cerevisiae (8.5 mg.mL(-1) vs. 1 
mg.mL(-1)). Catalytic activity and kinetic parameters of sfbeta4gal-T1mut 
produced in E. coli were shown not to differ to any significant extent from 
those of the native enzyme.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1327.2001.02357.x
PMID: 11488931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. ACS Synth Biol. 2016 Feb 19;5(2):133-45. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.5b00193. Epub 
2015 Dec 16.

Slowing Translation between Protein Domains by Increasing Affinity between mRNAs 
and the Ribosomal Anti-Shine-Dalgarno Sequence Improves Solubility.

Vasquez KA(1), Hatridge TA(1), Curtis NC(1), Contreras LM(1).

Author information:
(1)McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Texas at Austin , 
200 East Dean Keeton Street, Stop C0400, Austin, Texas 78712, United States.

Recent studies have demonstrated that effective protein production requires 
coordination of multiple cotranslational cellular processes, which are heavily 
affected by translation timing. Until recently, protein engineering has focused 
on codon optimization to maximize protein production rates, mostly considering 
the effect of tRNA abundance. However, as it relates to complex multidomain 
proteins, it has been hypothesized that strategic translational pauses between 
domains and between distinct individual structural motifs can prevent 
interactions between nascent chain fragments that generate kinetically trapped 
misfolded peptides and thereby enhance protein yields. In this study, we 
introduce synthetic transient pauses between structural domains in a 
heterologous model protein based on designed patterns of affinity between the 
mRNA and the anti-Shine-Dalgarno (aSD) sequence on the ribosome. We demonstrate 
that optimizing translation attenuation at domain boundaries can predictably 
affect solubility patterns in bacteria. Exploration of the affinity space showed 
that modifying less than 1% of the nucleotides (on a small 12 amino acid linker) 
can vary soluble protein yields up to ∼7-fold without altering the primary 
sequence of the protein. In the context of longer linkers, where a larger number 
of distinct structural motifs can fold outside the ribosome, optimal synonymous 
codon variations resulted in an additional 2.1-fold increase in solubility, 
relative to that of nonoptimized linkers of the same length. While rational 
construction of 54 linkers of various affinities showed a significant 
correlation between protein solubility and predicted affinity, only weaker 
correlations were observed between tRNA abundance and protein solubility. We 
also demonstrate that naturally occurring high-affinity clusters are present 
between structural domains of β-galactosidase, one of Escherichia coli's largest 
native proteins. Interdomain ribosomal affinity is an important factor that has 
not previously been explored in the context of protein engineering.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.5b00193
PMID: 26607828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. Protein Expr Purif. 2021 Mar;179:105780. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105780. Epub 
2020 Oct 25.

Expression and purification of active human kinases using Pichia pastoris as a 
general-purpose host.

Abdel Aziz MH(1), Fan Y(2), Liu L(3), Moasser MM(4), Fu H(5), Jura N(3), Arkin 
MR(6).

Author information:
(1)Small Molecule Discovery Center, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and 
Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: mabdelaziz@uttyler.edu.
(2)Small Molecule Discovery Center, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and 
Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Cardiovascular Research Institute and Department of Cellular and Molecular 
Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine and Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology and Emory Chemical Biology 
Discovery Center, Emory University School of Medicine and Winship Cancer 
Institute, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(6)Small Molecule Discovery Center, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and 
Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: michelle.arkin@ucsf.edu.

BACKGROUND: The heterologous expression of human kinases in good purity and in a 
monomeric, soluble and active form can be challenging. Most of the reported 
successful attempts are carried out in insect cells as a host. The use of E. 
coli for expression is limited to a few kinases and usually is facilitated by 
large solubility tags that can limit biophysical studies and affect 
protein-protein interactions. In this report, we evaluate the methylotrophic 
yeast Pichia pastoris (P. pastoris) as a general-purpose host for expression of 
human kinases.
METHODS: Six diverse kinases were chosen due to their therapeutic importance in 
human cancers. Tested proteins include serine/threonine kinases cyclin-dependent 
kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4 and 6) and aurora kinase A (AurKA), receptor tyrosine 
kinase erbB-2 (HER2), and dual specificity kinase mitogen-activated protein 
kinase kinase 3 (MKK3b). Noting that positively charged kinases expressed with 
higher yield, we sought to improve expression of two challenging targets, CDK6 
and HER2, by fusing the highly basic, N-terminal domain of the secreted 
tyrosine-protein kinase VLK. The standard expression procedure for P. pastoris 
was adopted, followed by purification using affinity chromatography. Purity and 
activity of the proteins were confirmed and compared to published values.
RESULTS: Some kinases were purified with good yield and purity and with 
comparable activity to commercially available versions. Addition of the VLK 
domain improved expression and decreased aggregation of CDK6 and HER2.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105780
PMID: 33115654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2379:155-169. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1791-5_9.

Coexpression and Reconstitution of Enzymatic Cascades in Bacteria Using UbiGate.

Kowarschik K(1), Trujillo M(2).

Author information:
(1)Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry, Halle (Saale), Germany.
(2)Institute for Biology II, Albert-Ludwigs-University Freiburgg, Freiburg, 
Germany. marco.trujillo@biologie.uni-freiburg.de.

Coexpression of multiple genes of interest (GOIs) is advantageous for many 
purposes including the elucidation of protein complexes, reconstitution of 
enzymatic cascades that mediate the biosynthesis of compounds, the study of 
signaling cascades, or the elucidation of posttranslational modification. 
Additional advantages of coexpressing proteins is increased solubility and 
stability of proteins. For this purpose we developed UbiGate, a modular system 
based on Golden Gate cloning that enables the generation of polycistronic 
expression cassettes. Their generation is achieved in four simple steps: (1) 
GOIs are amplified via PCR, (2) and restriction-ligated into level 0 cloning 
vectors. Next, (3) the GOIs in a level 0 vector are restriction-ligated into a 
dedicated set of level 1 vectors that define the position of the GOI within the 
operon. In the last step (4), level 1 vectors are cloned into a modified 
pET28-GG expression vector. The resulting modules at each step can be reused to 
generate fusions with different tags in any desired order and orientation, to 
include up to six different proteins representing a useful tool facilitating the 
study of plant metabolic and signaling pathways.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1791-5_9
PMID: 35188661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. Arch Physiol Biochem. 2017 Oct;123(4):254-264. doi: 
10.1080/13813455.2017.1312460. Epub 2017 Apr 25.

Camelus dromedarius glucose transporter 4: in silico analysis, cloning, 
expression, purification and characterisation in E. coli.

Ahmed A(1)(2), Arshad M(1), Malik A(1), Parveen S(3), Alsenaidy AM(1).

Author information:
(1)a Protein Research Chair, Department of Biochemistry, College of Science , 
King Saud University , Riyadh , Saudi Arabia.
(2)b Centre of Excellence in Biotechnology Research, Department of Biochemistry, 
College of Science , King Saud University , Riyadh , Saudi Arabia.
(3)c Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences , Jamia Millia 
Islamia , New Delhi , India.

Camels have exceptional carbohydrate metabolism as their plasma glucose level is 
high and have low whole body insulin sensitivity, similar to that observed in 
type 2 diabetes patients. We aimed at studing an important component of insulin 
signalling pathway, the GLUT4, in camel. Camelus dromedarius GLUT4 (CdGLUT4) CDS 
is 1530 nucleotide in length that encodes for a 55KDa protein. CdGLUT4 has 23 
amino acid substitutions and 3N-glycosylation sites, compared to 2 in Human 
GLUT4. 3 D structures of CdGLUT4 and HsGLUT4 generated by homology modelling 
revealed conservation of characteristic signature motifs. CdGLUT4 was cloned and 
expressed optimally in C43(DE3)pLysS strain and maximum detergent solubility was 
observed in n-Dodecyl-β-d-maltopyranoside. These preliminary data provide 
information on residual differences between CdGLUT4 and HsGLUT4 that may be 
responsible for camel's unique glucose metabolism. These differences are 
postulated to assist in designing and development of efficacious GLUT4 that 
might help in management of diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.1080/13813455.2017.1312460
PMID: 28440667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2017 Jul;44(7):1083-1095. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-017-1937-9. Epub 2017 Mar 21.

Efficient de novo synthesis of resveratrol by metabolically engineered 
Escherichia coli.

Wu J(1)(2), Zhou P(1)(2), Zhang X(1)(2), Dong M(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, 1 
Weigang Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Agro-Product Processing, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Nanjing, 210095, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(3)College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, 1 
Weigang Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China. dongms@njau.edu.cn.
(4)Institute of Agro-Product Processing, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Nanjing, 210095, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China. 
dongms@njau.edu.cn.

Resveratrol has been the subject of numerous scientific investigations due to 
its health-promoting activities against a variety of diseases. However, 
developing feasible and efficient microbial processes remains challenging owing 
to the requirement of supplementing expensive phenylpropanoic precursors. Here, 
various metabolic engineering strategies were developed for efficient de novo 
biosynthesis of resveratrol. A recombinant malonate assimilation pathway from 
Rhizobium trifolii was introduced to increase the supply of the key precursor 
malonyl-CoA and simultaneously, the clustered regularly interspaced short 
palindromic repeats interference system was explored to down-regulate fatty acid 
biosynthesis pathway to inactivate the malonyl-CoA consumption pathway. 
Down-regulation of fabD, fabH, fabB, fabF, fabI increased resveratrol production 
by 80.2, 195.6, 170.3, 216.5 and 123.7%, respectively. Furthermore, the combined 
effect of these genetic perturbations was investigated, which increased the 
resveratrol titer to 188.1 mg/L. Moreover, the efficiency of this synthetic 
pathway was improved by optimizing the expression level of the rate-limiting 
enzyme TAL based on reducing mRNA structure of 5' region. This further increased 
the final resveratrol titer to 304.5 mg/L. The study described here paves the 
way to the development of a simple and economical process for microbial 
production of resveratrol.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-017-1937-9
PMID: 28324236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1435. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2004 Feb;21(1):76-80.

[Cloning, expression and purification of rabbit metallothionein-I gene in 
Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun Y(1), He Z, Yang F, Chen Z, Yan B, Huang H, Li T.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South 
University, Changsha 410078, China.

The cDNA encoding the rabbit metallothionein-I was amplified by RT-PCR from the 
rabbit liver induced by cadmium and cloned into prokaryotic fusion expression 
vector pQE40. Then it was transformed into Escherichia coli M15. Positive 
expression clones were detected by colony blotting. Target protein solubility 
was determined by Western blotting analysis. The optimal induction condition of 
the level of protein expression with IPTG induction was established by SDS-PAGE 
electrophoresis and ImageMaster VDS software analysis. The fusion protein can be 
purified from lysates with Ni-NTA agarose. We found that the fusion protein with 
apparent molecular weight 32 KD existed in two ways: soluble and insoluble in 
Escherichia coli. After 1 mM IPTG induction, the level of expression of the 
fusion protein increased with the prolongation of induction time and reached a 
peak in 9 h by ImageMaster VDS software analysis, accounting for 57.4% of all 
the insoluble protein. The purified fusion protein was obtained by Ni-NTA 
affinity chromatography. This fusion protein can be used in further studies on 
the preparation of MT-I protein and development of protein product.

PMID: 15022470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2002;2(2):83-92. doi: 10.1023/a:1020424023207.

Differential effects of supplementary affinity tags on the solubility of MBP 
fusion proteins.

Routzahn KM(1), Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Protein Engineering Section, Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute at Frederick, P.O. Box B, 
Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.

It is difficult to imagine any strategy for high-throughput protein expression 
and purification that does not involve genetically engineered affinity tags. 
Because of its ability to enhance the solubility and promote the proper folding 
of its fusion partners, Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) is a 
particularly useful affinity tag. However, not all MBP fusion proteins bind 
efficiently to amylose resin, and even when they do it is usually not possible 
to obtain a sample of adequate purity after a single affinity step. To address 
this problem, we endeavored to incorporate supplemental affinity tags within the 
framework of an MBP fusion protein. We show that both the nature of the 
supplemental tags and their location can influence the ability of MBP to promote 
the solubility of its fusion partners. The most promising configurations for 
high-throughput protein expression and purification appear to be a fusion 
protein with a biotin acceptor peptide (BAP) on the N-terminus of MBP and/or a 
hexahistidine tag (His-tag) on the C-terminus of the passenger protein.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1020424023207
PMID: 12836665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2011 Jan;51(1):98-104.

[Construction and detection the bioactivity of human anti-rabies virus scdsFv].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang R(1), Yang S, Wang C, Gao Y, Shan H, Xia X.

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Qingdao Agriculture 
University, Qingdao 266109, China. yrm.cc@163.com

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to produce new antibody molecules to 
neutralize the rabies virus specifically by the way of constructing and 
expressing the human anti-rabies virus scdsFv (disulfide stabilized single chain 
antibody) gene, and characterizing its bioactivity.
METHODS: We obtained the sequence of variable region of heavy chain (VH) and 
variable region of light chain (VL) of RV monoclonal antibody SO57 from GenBank, 
and it respectively mutated into cysteine in the gene loci VH44 and VL100. The 
scdsFv gene was synthesized and inserted into a prokaryotic expression vector 
pET22b(+). Purified inclusion body scdsFv proteins were obtained by Ni-NTA His 
Bind Resin affinity chromatography and identified by SDS-PAGE gel and Western 
blot assay. The binding activity of scdsFv was identified by ELISA and mouse 
brain tissues infected with rabies virus CVS strain. The relative affinity of 
scdsFv was measured by ELISA using thiocyanate elution. The capacity of the 
scdsFv to neutralize the rabies virus CVS strains was determined by fluorescent 
antibody virus neutralisation test (FAVN). The fusion proteins neutralized the 
CVS strain in a standard in vivo neutralized assay where the virus was incubated 
with the scdsFv molecules before intracranial inoculation in mice.
RESULTS: The fragment genes of scdsFv to rabies virus were constructed 
successfully. ScdsFv protein was expressed in E. coli with approximate molecular 
weight of 30.0 kDa, which could be recognized by anti-His mAb. ELISA results 
demonstrated that scdsFv could bind antigen specificity. It was found that the 
strong reactivity of scdsFv to the smear of RV infected mouse-brain was 
demonstrated by IFA. As determined by FAVN with a reference serum, the titer of 
scdsFv was 41 IU/mL. In addition, scdsFv could be 55.6% protection of mice 
against lethal challenge with rabies virus CVS.
CONCLUSION: The scdsFv can bind antigen specificity and has neutralization 
capacity to the virus in vitro and in vivo. The anti-rabies scdsFv is potential 
for application in rabies post-exposure prophylaxis.

PMID: 21465795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. N Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 25;57:55-66. doi: 10.1016/j.nbt.2020.02.004. Epub 2020 
Apr 2.

Engineering endogenous fermentative routes in ethanologenic Escherichia coli W 
for bioethanol production from concentrated whey permeate.

Pasotti L(1), De Marchi D(1), Casanova M(1), Massaiu I(1), Bellato M(1), Cusella 
De Angelis MG(2), Calvio C(3), Magni P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy; Centre for Health Technologies, University of Pavia, 
27100 Pavia, Italy.
(2)Centre for Health Technologies, University of Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy.
(3)Centre for Health Technologies, University of Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy; 
Department of Biology and Biotechnology, University of Pavia, 27100 Pavia, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Electrical, Computer and Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Pavia, 27100 Pavia, Italy; Centre for Health Technologies, University of Pavia, 
27100 Pavia, Italy. Electronic address: paolo.magni@unipv.it.

Whey permeate (WP) is a lactose-rich waste effluent, generated during cheese 
manufacturing and further valorization steps, such as protein extraction. The 
production of ethanol by WP fermentation has been proposed to increase 
cost-competitiveness of dairy waste processing. In previous work, the 
Escherichia coli W strain was selected for its efficient growth in dairy waste 
and it was engineered to convert lactose into ethanol as the main fermentation 
product from WP and concentrated WP (CWP). To improve its performance, here the 
lactate dehydrogenase, fumarate reductase and pyruvate formate lyase 
fermentative routes were disrupted, obtaining new deletion strains. In test 
tubes, growth and fermentation profiles obtained in standard laboratory media 
and CWP showed large differences, and were affected by oxygen, medium and 
ethanologenic gene expression level. Among the tested strains, the one with 
triple deletion was superior in both high-oxygen and low-oxygen test tube 
fermentations, in terms of ethanol titer, rate and yield. The improved 
performance was due to a lower inhibition by medium acidification rather than an 
improved ethanol flux. The parent and triple deletion strains showed similar 
performance indexes in pH-controlled bioreactor experiments. However, the 
deletion strain showed lower base consumption and residual waste, in terms of 
both dry matter and chemical oxygen demand after distillation. It thus 
represents a step towards sustainable dairy wastewater valorization for 
bioenergy production by decreasing process operation costs.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbt.2020.02.004
PMID: 32247835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


1439. Comp Biochem Physiol B Biochem Mol Biol. 2018 Nov;225:21-28. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpb.2018.06.005. Epub 2018 Jul 5.

Identification and expression of cathepsin B from the freshwater mussel 
Cristaria plicata.

Yi P(1), Hu X(1), Hu B(2), Wen C(3), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330031, China.
(2)School of Life Science, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330031, China. 
Electronic address: baoqinghu@sina.com.
(3)School of Life Science, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330031, China. 
Electronic address: cgwen@ncu.edu.cn.

Cathepsin B plays crucial roles in host immune defense against pathogen 
infection. In present study, a cathepsin B gene from the freshwater mussel, 
Cristaria plicata (CpCathB) was cloned and characterized. The full-length cDNA 
of CpCathB was 1825 bp, and contained a 5' untranslated region (UTR) of 36 
nucleotides, an open reading frame (ORF) of 1044 bp and a 3' UTR of 745 bp with 
a poly (A) tail. The deduced CpCathB protein was encoded as a preproenzyme with 
347 amino acid residues and predicted molecular weight of 38.55 kDa. Sequence 
alignment revealed that CpCathB protein shared 56% - 60.7% identity comparison 
with other species. The predicted tertiary structure of CpCathB protein was 
highly similar to that of human. The CpCathB mRNA was expressed in hemocytes, 
hepatopancreas, adductor muscle, gills and mantle tissues of healthy mussels, 
and the highest expression level was in hepatopancreas. The transcripts of 
CpCathB were increased in hemocytes and hepatopancreas from mussels after 
Aeromonas hydrophila challenge. Moreover, the recombinant CpCathB was expressed 
in the Escherichia coli Rosetta-gami (DE3) strain. The maximum titer of the 
anti-CpCathB polyclonal antibodies was 1:640,000.The CpCathB protein had a 
higher expression in hepatopancreas and mantle and a lower level in hemocytes.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2018.06.005
PMID: 29981453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2014 Dec;41(2):250-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2014.09.008. 
Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Phosphoglycerate kinase enhanced immunity of the whole cell of Streptococcus 
agalactiae in tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus.

Wang YT(1), Huang HY(1), Tsai MA(1), Wang PC(1), Jiang BH(1), Chen SC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, National 
Pingtung University of Science and Technology, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, National 
Pingtung University of Science and Technology, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC. 
Electronic address: scchen@mail.npust.edu.tw.

Streptococcus agalactiae is a Gram-positive bacterium and a severe aquaculture 
pathogen that can infect a wide range of warmwater fish species. The 
outer-surface proteins in bacterial pathogens play an important role in 
pathogenesis. We evaluated the immunogenicity of two of the identified surface 
proteins namely phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) and ornithine 
carbamoyl-transferase (OCT). PGK and OCT were over-expressed and purified from 
Escherichia coli and used as the subunit vaccines in tilapia. Tilapia immunized 
with the S. agalactiae modified bacteria vaccine (whole cell preparations with 
recombinant PGK and OCT proteins) individually were tested for the efficacy. OCT 
and PGK combined with WC had a higher survival rate. A high-level protection and 
significant specific antibody responses against S. agalactiae challenge was 
observed upon the vaccinated tilapia with the purified PGK protein and S. 
agalactiae whole cells. The specific antibody titer against S. agalactiae 
antigen suggested that increased antibody titers were correlated with 
post-challenge survival rate. Il-1β expression profile was higher in PGK + 
WC-treated group. Tnf-α expression in the PGK + WC group was significantly 
increased. Taken together, our results suggested the combinations of recombinant 
protein and whole cell may elicit immune responses that reach greater protection 
than that of individual S. agalactiae components.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2014.09.008
PMID: 25218275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Oct;150:92-99. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.05.005. Epub 
2018 May 21.

Phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated HCK kinase domains produced by cell-free 
protein expression.

Katsura K(1), Tomabechi Y(1), Matsuda T(1), Yonemochi M(2), Mikuni J(2), Ohsawa 
N(1), Terada T(3), Yokoyama S(3), Kukimoto-Niino M(2), Takemoto C(4), Shirouzu 
M(5).

Author information:
(1)Protein Functional and Structural Biology Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technology, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.
(2)Protein Functional and Structural Biology Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technology, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan; Drug 
Discovery Structural Biology Platform Unit, RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technologies, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.
(3)RIKEN Structural Biology Laboratory, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 
230-0045, Japan.
(4)Protein Functional and Structural Biology Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technology, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan. Electronic 
address: chie.takemoto@riken.jp.
(5)Protein Functional and Structural Biology Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technology, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan; Drug 
Discovery Structural Biology Platform Unit, RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technologies, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan. 
Electronic address: mikako.shirouzu@riken.jp.

Since phosphorylation is involved in various physiological events, kinases and 
interacting factors can be potential targets for drug discovery. For the 
development and improvement of inhibitors from the point of view of mechanistic 
enzymology, a cell-free protein synthesis system would be advantageous, since it 
could prepare mutant proteins easily. However, especially in the case of protein 
kinase, product solubility remains one of the major challenges. To overcome this 
problem, we prepared a chaperone-supplemented extract from Escherichia coli 
BL21 cells harboring a plasmid encoding a set of chaperone genes, dnaK, dnaJ, 
and grpE. We explored cell-disruption procedures and constructed an efficient 
protein synthesis system. Employing this system, we produced the kinase domain 
of human hematopoietic cell kinase (HCK) to obtain further structural 
information about its molecular interaction with one of its inhibitors, 
previously developed by our group (RK-20449). Lower reaction temperature 
improved the solubility, and addition of a protein phosphatase (YpoH) 
facilitated the homogeneous production of the non-phosphorylated kinase domain. 
Crystals of the purified product were obtained and the kinase-inhibitor complex 
structure was solved at 1.7 Å resolution. In addition, results of kinase 
activity measurement, using a synthetic substrate, showed that the kinase 
activity was facilitated by autophosphorylation at Tyr416, as confirmed by the 
peptide mass mapping.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.05.005
PMID: 29793032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2010 Sep;398(2):701-16. doi: 10.1007/s00216-010-3962-7. Epub 
2010 Jul 13.

Profiling of the reactive oxygen species-related ecotoxicity of CuO, ZnO, TiO2, 
silver and fullerene nanoparticles using a set of recombinant luminescent 
Escherichia coli strains: differentiating the impact of particles and 
solubilised metals.

Ivask A(1), Bondarenko O, Jepihhina N, Kahru A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, National Institute of Chemical Physics and 
Biophysics, Akadeemia tee 23, Tallinn, 12618, Estonia. angela@kbfi.ee

We propose a novel combination of high-throughput luminescent bacterial tests 
for the evaluation of the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating potential of 
engineered nanoparticles (eNPs) and the role of solubilised metal ions in this 
process. The set of tests consists of differently engineered recombinant 
Escherichia coli strains: (1) a new sensor strain, which bioluminescence is 
induced by superoxide anions; (2) six recombinant E. coli strains (superoxide 
dismutase (sod) single, double and triple mutants and a respective wild-type 
strain), transformed with luxCDABE genes responding to toxic compounds by 
decreasing their luminescence; and (3) three strains in which bioluminescence is 
specifically induced by bioavailable metals (Cu, Zn and Ag). The applicability 
of this battery of tests in profiling oxidative potential of eNPs was evaluated 
on nTiO(2), nCuO, nZnO and nAg (25, 30, 70 and <100 nm, respectively) NPs and 
fullerenes. As controls for the size or solubility, the bulk formulations 
(bTiO(2), bCuO and bZnO) and soluble salts (ZnSO(4), CuSO(4) and AgNO(3)) were 
also analysed. Bacterial toxicity tests showed that nCuO was four-fold more 
toxic, and nAg was 15-fold more toxic to triple sod mutant than to wild type 
(2-h EC(50) values were 8.1 and 2.0 mg Cu l(-1), respectively, and 46 and 3.1 mg 
Ag l(-1), respectively). Formation of ROS by nCuO and nAg was proved by 
superoxide anion-inducible strain. The metal sensor bacteria showed that the ROS 
formation by CuO NPs was caused by solubilised Cu ions, but in case of nAg, 
particles also had an effect. nZnO was remarkably more toxic to sod triple 
mutant than to wild type strain (2-h EC(50) were 4.5 and 54 mg Zn l(-1), 
respectively). Fullerenes inhibited the bioluminescence of sod triple mutant at 
3,882 mg l(-1) but had no effect on the wild-type strain even at 20,800 mg 
l(-1). Nano and bTiO(2) showed some effect on viability of bacteria only at high 
concentrations (>4,000 mg l(-1)) although nTiO(2) (but not bTiO(2)) induced the 
bioluminescence of the superoxide anion sensing bacteria starting from 100 mg 
l(-1). Thus, our innovative combined approach is expected to provide more 
consistent and informative data concerning the general toxicity, ROS-production 
potential and also solubilisation of metals in the case of metallic NPs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-010-3962-7
PMID: 20623373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 Dec 28;28(12):2029-2035. doi: 
10.4014/jmb.1810.10007.

Biochemical Characterization of Alkaliphilic Cyclodextran Glucanotransferase 
from an Alkaliphilic Bacterium, Paenibacillus daejeonensis.

Yang SJ(1), Ko JA(2), Kim HS(1), Jo MH(1), Lee HN(1), Park BR(3), Kim Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology and BK21 Plus Program, Chonnam 
National University, Gwangju 61186, Republic of Korea.
(2)Radiation Breeding Research Center, Advanced Radiation Technology Institute, 
Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute, Jeongeup, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Agrofood Resources National Academy of Agricultural Science, 
RDA.

Cycloisomaltooligosaccharide glucanotransferase (CITase) was isolated from 
alkaliphilic Paenibacillus daejeonensis via an amino acid homology search for 
the reported CITase. The recombinant alkaliphilic CITase (PDCITase) from P. 
daejeonensis was expressed in an Escherichia coli expression system and purified 
as a single protein band of 111 kDa. PDCITase showed optimum activity at pH 8.0 
and retained 100% of activity within a broad pH range (7.0-11.5) after 18 h, 
indicating alkaliphilic or alkalistable CITase properties. In addition, PDCITase 
produced CI-7 to CI-17, CI-18, and CI-19, which are relatively large 
cycloisomaltooligosaccharides yet to be reported. Therefore, these large 
cycloisomaltooligosaccharides can be applied to the improvement of water 
solubility of pharmaceutical biomaterials.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1810.10007
PMID: 30394040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1444. Antibodies (Basel). 2018 Feb 1;7(1):9. doi: 10.3390/antib7010009.

Structural Changes in Stx1 Engineering Monoclonal Antibody Improves Its 
Functionality as Diagnostic Tool for a Rapid Latex Agglutination Test.

Luz D(1), Shiga EA(2), Chen G(3), Quintilio W(4), Andrade FB(5), Maranhão AQ(6), 
Caetano BA(7), Mitsunari T(8), Silva MA(9), Rocha LB(10), Moro AM(11), Sidhu 
SS(12), Piazza RMF(13).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. daniedaluz@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. emerson.shiga@butantan.gov.br.
(3)Department of Molecular Genetics, Terrence Donnelly Centre for Cellular and 
Biomolecular Research, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 3E1, Canada. 
gchen2012@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratório de Biofármacos em Células Animais, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, 
SP 05503-900, Brazil. wagner.quintilio@butantan.gov.br.
(5)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. fernanda.andrade@butantan.gov.br.
(6)Laboratório de Imunologia, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília 70910-900, 
Brazil. andreaqm@unb.br.
(7)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. bruna.caetano@butantan.gov.br.
(8)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. thais.mitsunari@butantan.gov.br.
(9)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. miriam.silva@butantan.gov.br.
(10)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. leticia.rocha@butantan.gov.br.
(11)Laboratório de Biofármacos em Células Animais, Instituto Butantan, São 
Paulo, SP 05503-900, Brazil. ana.moro@butantan.gov.br.
(12)Department of Molecular Genetics, Terrence Donnelly Centre for Cellular and 
Biomolecular Research, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5S 3E1, Canada. 
sachdev.sidhu@utoronto.ca.
(13)Laboratório de Bacteriologia, Instituto Butantan, São Paulo, SP 05503-900, 
Brazil. roxane@butantan.gov.br.

Stx1 toxin is one of the AB5 toxins of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli 
(STEC) responsible for foodborne intoxication during outbreaks. The single-chain 
variable fragment (scFv) is the most common recombinant antibody format; it 
consists of both variable chains connected by a peptide linker with conserved 
specificity and affinity for antigen. The drawbacks of scFv production in 
bacteria are the heterologous expression, conformation and stability of the 
molecule, which could change the affinity for the antigen. In this work, we 
obtained a stable and functional scFv-Stx1 in bacteria, starting from IgG 
produced by hybridoma cells. After structural modifications, i.e., change in 
protein orientation, vector and linker, its solubility for expression in 
bacteria was increased as well as the affinity for its antigen, demonstrated by 
a scFv dissociation constant (KD) of 2.26 × 10-7 M. Also, it was able to 
recognize purified Stx1 and cross-reacted with Stx2 toxin by ELISA 
(Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay), and detected 88% of Stx1-producing strains 
using a rapid latex agglutination test. Thus, the scFv fragment obtained in the 
present work is a bacteria-produced tool for use in a rapid diagnosis test, 
providing an alternative for STEC diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3390/antib7010009
PMCID: PMC6698835
PMID: 31544861

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1445. Metab Eng. 2017 Nov;44:13-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2017.08.005. Epub 2017 Aug 
31.

Balanced activation of IspG and IspH to eliminate MEP intermediate accumulation 
and improve isoprenoids production in Escherichia coli.

Li Q(1), Fan F(1), Gao X(2), Yang C(2), Bi C(1), Tang J(1), Liu T(1), Zhang 
X(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, Institute of Plant Physiology and 
Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China. 
Electronic address: zhang_xl@tib.cas.cn.

The MEP pathway genes were modulated to investigate whether there were new 
rate-limiting steps and toxic intermediates in this pathway. Activating IspG led 
to significant decrease of cell growth and β-carotene production. It was found 
that ispG overexpression led to accumulation of intermediate HMBPP, which 
seriously interfered with synthesis machinery of nucleotide and protein in 
Escherichia coli. Activation of the downstream enzyme IspH could solve HMBPP 
accumulation problem and eliminate the negative effects of ispG overexpression. 
In addition, intermediate MECPP accumulated in the starting strain, while 
balanced activation of IspG and IspH could push the carbon flux away from MECPP 
and led to 73% and 77% increase of β-carotene and lycopene titer respectively. 
Our work for the first time identified HMBPP to be a cytotoxic intermediate in 
MEP pathway and demonstrated that balanced activation of IspG and IspH could 
eliminate accumulation of HMBPP and MECPP and improve isoprenoids production.

Copyright © 2017 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2017.08.005
PMID: 28864262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. BMC Biotechnol. 2009 Aug 23;9:72. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-9-72.

High quality protein microarray using in situ protein purification.

Kwon K(1), Grose C, Pieper R, Pandya GA, Fleischmann RD, Peterson SN.

Author information:
(1)Pathogen Functional Genomics Resource Center, J. Craig Venter Institute, 9704 
Medical Center Drive, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA. kkwon@jcvi.org

BACKGROUND: In the postgenomic era, high throughput protein expression and 
protein microarray technologies have progressed markedly permitting screening of 
therapeutic reagents and discovery of novel protein functions. Hexa-histidine is 
one of the most commonly used fusion tags for protein expression due to its 
small size and convenient purification via immobilized metal ion affinity 
chromatography (IMAC). This purification process has been adapted to the protein 
microarray format, but the quality of in situ His-tagged protein purification on 
slides has not been systematically evaluated. We established methods to 
determine the level of purification of such proteins on metal chelate-modified 
slide surfaces. Optimized in situ purification of His-tagged recombinant 
proteins has the potential to become the new gold standard for cost-effective 
generation of high-quality and high-density protein microarrays.
RESULTS: Two slide surfaces were examined, chelated Cu2+ slides suspended on a 
polyethylene glycol (PEG) coating and chelated Ni2+ slides immobilized on a 
support without PEG coating. Using PEG-coated chelated Cu2+ slides, consistently 
higher purities of recombinant proteins were measured. An optimized wash buffer 
(PBST) composed of 10 mM phosphate buffer, 2.7 mM KCl, 140 mM NaCl and 0.05% 
Tween 20, pH 7.4, further improved protein purity levels. Using Escherichia coli 
cell lysates expressing 90 recombinant Streptococcus pneumoniae proteins, 73 
proteins were successfully immobilized, and 66 proteins were in situ purified 
with greater than 90% purity. We identified several antigens among the in 
situ-purified proteins via assays with anti-S. pneumoniae rabbit antibodies and 
a human patient antiserum, as a demonstration project of large scale 
microarray-based immunoproteomics profiling. The methodology is compatible with 
higher throughput formats of in vivo protein expression, eliminates the need for 
resin-based purification and circumvents protein solubility and denaturation 
problems caused by buffer exchange steps and freeze-thaw cycles, which are 
associated with resin-based purification, intermittent protein storage and 
deposition on microarrays.
CONCLUSION: An optimized platform for in situ protein purification on microarray 
slides using His-tagged recombinant proteins is a desirable tool for the 
screening of novel protein functions and protein-protein interactions. In the 
context of immunoproteomics, such protein microarrays are complimentary to 
approaches using non-recombinant methods to discover and characterize bacterial 
antigens.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-9-72
PMCID: PMC2746808
PMID: 19698181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Biotechnol Prog. 2017 Jan;33(1):261-270. doi: 10.1002/btpr.2377. Epub 2016 Oct 
31.

Bioprocess development workflow: Transferable physiological knowledge instead of 
technological correlations.

Reichelt WN(1), Haas F(2), Sagmeister P(2), Herwig C(1).

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mechanistic and Physiological Methods for 
Improved Bioprocesses, Institute of Chemical Engineering, Vienna University of 
Technology, Getreidemarkt 9/166, Vienna, A-1060, Austria.
(2)Research Division Biochemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Engineering, 
Vienna University of Technology, Gumpendorfer Strasse 1A/166-4, Vienna, 1060, 
Austria.

Microbial bioprocesses need to be designed to be transferable from lab scale to 
production scale as well as between setups. Although substantial effort is 
invested to control technological parameters, usually the only true constant 
parameter is the actual producer of the product: the cell. Hence, instead of 
solely controlling technological process parameters, the focus should be 
increasingly laid on physiological parameters. This contribution aims at 
illustrating a workflow of data life cycle management with special focus on 
physiology. Information processing condenses the data into physiological 
variables, while information mining condenses the variables further into 
physiological descriptors. This basis facilitates data analysis for a 
physiological explanation for observed phenomena in productivity. Targeting 
transferability, we demonstrate this workflow using an industrially relevant 
Escherichia coli process for recombinant protein production and substantiate the 
following three points: (1) The postinduction phase is independent in terms of 
productivity and physiology from the preinduction variables specific growth rate 
and biomass at induction. (2) The specific substrate uptake rate during 
induction phase was found to significantly impact the maximum specific product 
titer. (3) The time point of maximum specific titer can be predicted by an easy 
accessible physiological variable: while the maximum specific titers were 
reached at different time points (19.8 ± 7.6 h), those maxima were reached all 
within a very narrow window of cumulatively consumed substrate dSn (3.1 ± 0.3 
g/g). Concluding, this contribution provides a workflow on how to gain a 
physiological view on the process and illustrates potential benefits. © 2016 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. Prog., 33:261-270, 2017.

© 2016 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.2377
PMID: 27690336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 May;71(1):33-41. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.12.014. Epub 
2010 Jan 4.

Bioinformatic mapping and production of recombinant N-terminal domains of human 
cardiac ryanodine receptor 2.

Bauerová-Hlinková V(1), Hostinová E, Gasperík J, Beck K, Borko L, Lai FA, 
Zahradníková A, Sevcík J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Protein Structure and Function, Institute of Molecular Biology, 
Slovak Academy of Sciences, Dúbravská Cesta 21, 845 51 Bratislava, Slovakia.

We report the domain analysis of the N-terminal region (residues 1-759) of the 
human cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) that encompasses one of the discrete 
RyR2 mutation clusters associated with catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular 
tachycardia (CPVT1) and arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia (ARVD2). Our 
strategy utilizes a bioinformatics approach complemented by protein expression, 
solubility analysis and limited proteolytic digestion. Based on the 
bioinformatics analysis, we designed a series of specific RyR2 N-terminal 
fragments for cloning and overexpression in Escherichia coli. High yields of 
soluble proteins were achieved for fragments RyR2(1-606)xHis(6), 
RyR2(391-606)xHis(6), RyR2(409-606)xHis(6), Trx.RyR2(384-606)xHis(6), 
TrxxRyR2(391-606)xHis(6) and Trx.RyR2(409-606)xHis(6). The folding of 
RyR2(1-606)xHis(6) was analyzed by circular dichroism spectroscopy resulting in 
alpha-helix and beta-sheet content of approximately 23% and approximately 29%, 
respectively, at temperatures up to 35 degrees C, which is in agreement with 
sequence based secondary structure predictions. Tryptic digestion of the largest 
recombinant protein, RyR2(1-606)xHis(6), resulted in the appearance of two 
specific subfragments of approximately 40 and 25 kDa. The 25 kDa fragment 
exhibited greater stability. Hybridization with anti-His(6).Tag antibody 
indicated that RyR2(1-606)xHis(6) is cleaved from the N-terminus and amino acid 
sequencing of the proteolytic fragments revealed that digestion occurred after 
residues 259 and 384, respectively.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2009.12.014
PMCID: PMC2845809
PMID: 20045464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;2025:439-476. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9624-7_21.

High-Throughput Production of a New Library of Human Single and Tandem PDZ 
Domains Allows Quantitative PDZ-Peptide Interaction Screening Through 
High-Throughput Holdup Assay.

Duhoo Y(1), Girault V(2), Turchetto J(1), Ramond L(1), Durbesson F(1), Fourquet 
P(3), Nominé Y(4), Cardoso V(5), Sequeira AF(5), Brás JLA(5), Fontes CMGA(5), 
Travé G(4), Wolff N(2), Vincentelli R(6).

Author information:
(1)Architecture et Fonction des Macromolécules Biologiques (AFMB), Unité Mixte 
de Recherche (UMR) 7257, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) 
Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille cedex 9, France.
(2)Unité Récepteurs-Canaux, Département of Neuroscience, CNRS UMR 3571, Institut 
Pasteur, Paris Cedex 15, France.
(3)Université Aix-Marseille, Inserm, CNRS, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, CRCM, 
Marseille Protéomique, Marseille, France.
(4)Équipe Labellisée Ligue 2015, Department of Integrated Structural Biology, 
Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), INSERM 
U1258/CNRS UMR 7104/Université de Strasbourg, Illkirch, France.
(5)NZYTech Genes and Enzymes, Lisbon, Portugal.
(6)Architecture et Fonction des Macromolécules Biologiques (AFMB), Unité Mixte 
de Recherche (UMR) 7257, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) 
Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille cedex 9, France. 
Renaud.vincentelli@afmb.univ-mrs.fr.

PDZ domains recognize PDZ Binding Motifs (PBMs) at the extreme C-terminus of 
their partner proteins. The human proteome contains 266 identified PDZ domains, 
the PDZome, spread over 152 proteins. We previously developed the "holdup" 
chromatographic assay for high-throughput determination of PDZ-PBM affinities. 
In that work, we had used an expression library of 241 PDZ constructs (the 
"PDZome V.1"). Here, we cloned, produced, and characterized a new bacterial 
expression library ("PDZome V.2"), which comprises all the 266 known human PDZ 
domains as well as 37 PDZ tandem constructs. To ensure the best expression 
level, folding, and solubility, all construct boundaries were redesigned using 
available structural data and all DNA sequences were optimized for Escherichia 
coli expression. Consequently, all the PDZ constructs are produced in a soluble 
form. Precise quantification and quality control were carried out. The binding 
profiles previously published using "PDZome V.1" were reproduced and completed 
using the novel "PDZome V.2" library. We provide here the detailed description 
of the high-throughput protocols followed through the PDZ gene synthesis and 
cloning, PDZ production, holdup assay and data treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9624-7_21
PMID: 31267466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. Arch Med Sci. 2014 May 12;10(2):389-95. doi: 10.5114/aoms.2013.36921. Epub 2013 
Aug 12.

Improved methodology to obtain large quantities of correctly folded recombinant 
N-terminal extracellular domain of the human muscle acetylcholine receptor for 
inducing experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in rats.

Sun C(1), Zhang H(2), Xu J(3), Gao J(3), Qi X(4), Li Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tangdu Hospital, the Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'An, China ; Department of Neurology, PLA Navy General Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Tangdu Hospital, the Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'An, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, PLA Navy General Hospital, Beijing, China.

INTRODUCTION: Human myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder of the 
neuromuscular system. Experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) is a 
well-established animal model for MG that can be induced by active immunization 
with the Torpedo californica-derived acetylcholine receptor (AChR). Due to the 
expensive cost of purifying AChR from Torpedo californica, the development of an 
easier and more economical way of inducing EAMG remains critically needed.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Full-length cDNA of the human skeletal muscle AChR α1 
subunit was obtained from TE671 cells. The DNA fragment encoding the 
extracellular domain (ECD) was then amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
and inserted into pET-16b. The reconstructed plasmid was transformed into the 
host strain BL21(DE3)pLysS, which was derived from Escherichia coli. 
Isopropyl-β-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) was used to induce the expression of 
the N-terminal ECD. The produced protein was purified with immobilized Ni(2+) 
affinity chromatography and refolded by dialysis.
RESULTS: The recombinant protein was efficiently refolded to soluble active 
protein, which was verified by ELISA. After immunization with the recombinant 
ECD, all rats acquired clinical signs of EAMG. The titer of AChR antibodies in 
the serum was significantly higher in the EAMG group than in the control group, 
indicating successful induction of EAMG.
CONCLUSIONS: We describe an improved procedure for refolding recombinant ECD of 
human muscle AChR. This improvement allows for the generation of large 
quantities of correctly folded recombinant ECD of human muscle AChR, which 
provides for an easier and more economical way of inducing the animal model of 
MG.

DOI: 10.5114/aoms.2013.36921
PMCID: PMC4042039
PMID: 24904677


1451. Viruses. 2021 Jan 27;13(2):190. doi: 10.3390/v13020190.

Protein Binder (ProBi) as a New Class of Structurally Robust Non-Antibody 
Protein Scaffold for Directed Evolution.

Pham PN(1), Huličiak M(1), Biedermannová L(1), Černý J(1), Charnavets T(1), 
Fuertes G(1), Herynek Š(1), Kolářová L(1), Kolenko P(1), Pavlíček J(1), 
Zahradník J(1), Mikulecky P(1), Schneider B(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, BIOCEV, CZ-25250 
Vestec, Czech Republic.

Engineered small non-antibody protein scaffolds are a promising alternative to 
antibodies and are especially attractive for use in protein therapeutics and 
diagnostics. The advantages include smaller size and a more robust, 
single-domain structural framework with a defined binding surface amenable to 
mutation. This calls for a more systematic approach in designing new scaffolds 
suitable for use in one or more methods of directed evolution. We hereby 
describe a process based on an analysis of protein structures from the Protein 
Data Bank and their experimental examination. The candidate protein scaffolds 
were subjected to a thorough screening including computational evaluation of the 
mutability, and experimental determination of their expression yield in E. coli, 
solubility, and thermostability. In the next step, we examined several variants 
of the candidate scaffolds including their wild types and alanine mutants. We 
proved the applicability of this systematic procedure by selecting a monomeric 
single-domain human protein with a fold different from previously known 
scaffolds. The newly developed scaffold, called ProBi (Protein Binder), contains 
two independently mutable surface patches. We demonstrated its functionality by 
training it as a binder against human interleukin-10, a medically important 
cytokine. The procedure yielded scaffold-related variants with nanomolar 
affinity.

DOI: 10.3390/v13020190
PMCID: PMC7911045
PMID: 33514045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1452. J Biochem Biophys Methods. 2006 Apr 30;67(1):49-56. doi: 
10.1016/j.jbbm.2006.01.003. Epub 2006 Feb 10.

Development of antibody-based assays for omega-conotoxin MVIIA.

Wang F(1), Chen G, Zhu Y, Guo Z, Zheng S, Zhan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Zhejiang University Medical School, Hangzhou 
310006, China.

Omega-conotoxin MVIIA (CTX MVIIA) is a specific peptide blocker of the N-type 
voltage-sensitive calcium channel in neurons. The synthetic version of CTX 
MVIIA, Ziconotide, has been recently approved by FDA for management of severe 
and chronic pains. Currently, the chemical synthetic CTX MVIIA has been analyzed 
by RP-HPLC, and there are no chemical or immunological assays available for 
determination of the peptide. In this article, we report a novel method for 
preparation of polyclonal antibody against CTX MVIIA, and the antibody-based 
assays for the analysis of CTX MVIIA. The DNA sequences encoding the conotoxin 
were chemically synthesized and then cloned into the expression vector pGEX-2T. 
The GST fusion protein of CTX MVIIA was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) with 
induction of IPTG. The purified fusion protein was used to immunize the male 
rabbits with standard protocols. The produced antiserum was purified through 
anion-exchange chromatography. Another thioredoxin (Trx) fusion protein of CTX 
MVIIA was employed to cross-examine the antibody against the conotoxin. Our 
Western blot and ELISA results show that the polyclonal antibody was capable of 
binding the conotoxin parts of both GST and Trx fusion proteins, and the 
antibody titer is 1:8192. Thus, the assays based on this antibody are useful for 
the conotoxin analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbbm.2006.01.003
PMID: 16503054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. Growth Factors. 2010 Apr;28(2):104-10. doi: 10.3109/08977190903443048.

A convenient method for preparation of an engineered mouse interleukin-3 analog 
with high solubility and wild-type bioactivity.

Murphy JM(1), Metcalf D, Young IG, Hilton DJ.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Medicine Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical 
Research, 1G Royal Parade, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia. 
jamesm@wehi.edu.au

Mouse interleukin-3 (mIL-3) is a critical cytokine regulator of myeloid cell 
differentiation, survival and activation, and consequently this cytokine has 
become a key reagent for hematological studies in the laboratory. Although 
bacterial expression has been used for the preparation of recombinant mIL-3 for 
more than 20 years, the resultant cytokine is known to exhibit poor solubility, 
be prone to aggregation, and may contain mispaired disulfide bonds. As a result, 
little structural characterization of mIL-3 has been possible to date. In the 
present work, we describe a convenient, inexpensive, and scalable protocol for 
preparing an mIL-3 analog with wild-type bioactivity from Escherichia coli via a 
simple purification scheme. This analog is typically expressed at >1 mg/l of 
shaking Super broth culture and, owing to solubility >5 mg/ml, structural 
studies in solution by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy are feasible for 
mIL-3 for the first time.

DOI: 10.3109/08977190903443048
PMID: 19961363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Biotechnol Prog. 2016 Mar;32(2):285-93. doi: 10.1002/btpr.2227. Epub 2016 Feb 
18.

Synthetic chimeras with orthogonal ribosomal proteins increase translation 
yields by recruiting mRNA for translation as measured by profiling active 
ribosomes.

Cho SH(1), Contreras LM(1)(2), Ju SH(2).

Author information:
(1)Inst. for Cellular & Molecular Biology, The University of Texas at Austin, 
Molecular Biology Building, 2500 Speedway Stop A4800, Austin, TX, 78712.
(2)McKetta Dept. of Chemical Engineering, Cockrell School of Engineering, The 
University of Texas at Austin, 200 E. Dean Keeton St. Stop C0400, Austin, TX, 
78712.

In addition to their roles in protein biosynthesis, components of cellular 
ribosomes perform roles that contribute to a number of important cellular 
processes. Exploitation of processes has led to the use of ribosomal parts as 
solubility enhancer partners and purification matrices in protein expression. In 
this work, an engineered version of the E. coli ribosomal protein L29 (L4H2) as 
a fusion partner for enhancing cellular expression of proteins that are poorly 
expressed in bacteria was exploited. It was demonstrated that a chimeric fusion 
of L4H2 with various Fcγ receptors increases total expression up to 3.2-fold, 
relative to Fcγ receptors expressed without the fusion. Mechanistic insights 
using a novel application of in vivo ribosome display suggested that, although 
total cellular mRNA levels of L4H2-Fcγ receptor remained unchanged relative to 
wild-type Fcγ receptors, mRNA levels of actively translated L4H2-Fcγ transcript 
increased about 3.8-fold relative to actively translated levels of wild-type Fcγ 
transcript. Similar increases in protein expression in the context of the other 
proteins tested, showing the generality of this approach for proteins beyond 
human receptors was observed. These results extended the number of potential 
schemes by which orthogonal ribosomal parts can be used to enhance complex 
protein expression in bacterial platforms. Within a larger scope, this study 
features the possibility of engineering 5' tags that enhance mRNA affinity to 
ribosomes as strategies to augment translation. It was envisioned that the 
successful application of profiling active ribosomes in a highly targeted manner 
could be beneficial for mechanistic translation studies concerning synthesis of 
target proteins. © 2016 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. 
Prog., 32:285-293, 2016.

© 2016 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.2227
PMID: 26749267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. ACS Synth Biol. 2021 Oct 15;10(10):2753-2762. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00361. 
Epub 2021 Oct 1.

Tailoring Genetic Elements of the Plasmid-Driven T7 System for Stable and Robust 
One-Step Cloning and Protein Expression in Broad Escherichia coli.

Tan SI(1), Hsiang CC(1), Ng IS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 
701, Taiwan, ROC.

The plasmid-driven T7 system (PDT7) is a flexible approach to trigger protein 
overexpression; however, most of the reported PDT7 rely on many auxiliary 
elements or inducible systems to attenuate the toxicity from the orthogonality 
of the T7 system, which limits its application as the one-step cloning and 
protein expression system. In this study, we developed a stable and robust PDT7 
via tailoring the genetic elements. By error-prone mutagenesis, a mutated T7RNAP 
with TTTT insertion conferred a trace but enough amount of T7RNAP for stable and 
efficient PDT7, denoted as PDT7m. The replication origin was kept at the same 
level, while the ribosome binding site (RBS) of the T7 promoter was the most 
contributing factor, thus enhancing the protein expression twofold using PDT7m. 
For application as a host-independent screening platform, both constitutive and 
IPTG-inducible PDT7m were constructed. It was found that each strain harnessed 
different IPTG inducibilities for tailor-made strain selection. Constitutive 
PDT7m was successfully used to express the homologous protein (i.e., lysine 
decarboxylase) or heterologous protein (i.e., carbonic anhydrase, CA) as a 
one-step cloning and protein expression tool to select the best strain for 
cadaverine (DAP) or CA production, respectively. Additionally, PDT7m is 
compatible with the pET system for coproduction of DAP and CA simultaneously. 
Finally, PDT7m was used for in vivo high-end chemical production of 
aminolevulinic acid (ALA), in which addition of the T7 terminator successfully 
enhanced 340% ALA titer, thus paving the way to rapidly and effectively 
screening the superior strain as a cell factory.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00361
PMID: 34597025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. Bioengineered. 2018;9(1):233-241. doi: 10.1080/21655979.2018.1478489.

Biosynthesis of ethylene glycol from d-xylose in recombinant Escherichia coli.

Wang Y(1)(2), Xian M(1), Feng X(1)(3), Liu M(1)(3), Zhao G(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)a CAS Key Laboratory of Biobased Materials , Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy 
and Bioprocess Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences , Qingdao , China.
(2)b School of Life Science , Shandong University , Jinan , China.
(3)c Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology , Qingdao , China.

Ethylene glycol (EG) is an important chemical used as antifreeze and a raw 
material in polyester synthesis. The EG biosynthetic pathway from D-xylose with 
D-xylonate as key intermediate has some advantages, but showed low EG 
production. Here, we reconstructed and optimized this pathway in Escherichia 
coli. In view of the greater intracellular prevalence of NADH, an aldehyde 
reductase FucO using NADH was employed to convert glycoaldehyde into EG, in 
replacement of NADPH-dependent reductase YqhD. To suppress the accumulation of 
by-products acetate and glycolate, two genes arcA and aldA were knocked out. The 
resultant strain Q2843 produced 72 g/L EG under fed-batch fermentation 
conditions, with the yield of 0.40 g/g D-xylose and EG productivity of 
1.38 g/L/h. The use of NADH-dependent enzyme FucO and by-product elimination 
significantly improved the performance of EG producing strain, which represented 
the highest titer, yield and productivity of EG reported so far.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2018.1478489
PMCID: PMC6984763
PMID: 29865993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1457. Vaccine. 2007 Aug 21;25(34):6367-72. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.06.031. Epub 
2007 Jul 3.

Construction and immunogenicity of recombinant adenovirus expressing the major 
outer membrane protein (MOMP) of Chlamydophila psittaci in chicks.

Zhou J(1), Qiu C, Cao XA, Lin G.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Virology of Ministry of Agriculture, State Key 
Laboratory of Veterinary Etiological Biology, Lanzhou Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Lanzhou 730046, China.

Avian chlamydiosis is caused by Chlamydophila psittaci. The major outer membrane 
protein (MOMP) encoded by the outer membrane protein 1 (omp1) gene is an 
excellent candidate for genetic engineering of a vaccine against avian 
chlamydiosis. In this study, the MOMP gene was amplified by PCR and cloned into 
the transfer vector pShuttle-CMV. The recombinant plasmid was obtained by 
recombination between the plasmid pShuttle-CMV-MOMP and skeleton vector 
pAdEasy-1 in Escherichia coli strain BJ5183. The titer of recombinant adenovirus 
containing the MOMP gene (rAd-MOMP) of C. psittaci was 3.4x10(10)TCID(50)/ml in 
human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) monolayer cells. The expression of the MOMP 
in HEK293 cells infected with rAd-MOMP was confirmed by an indirect 
immunofluorescence assay. Specific pathogen free (SPF) chicks were inoculated 
with 10(6), 10(8), and 10(10)TCID(50) of rAd-MOMP/chick. Inoculated chicks 
generated antibodies against MOMP of C. psittaci, which were detected by an 
indirect hemagglutination test (IHA). The vaccinated chicks were challenged with 
a virulent Chinese field isolate. Nine out of 10 chicks in the vaccinated group 
were protected, while birds in the wild-type adenovirus control group and the 
PBS control group all showed clinical signs after challenge. The results 
indicate that the recombinant adenovirus containing the MOMP gene of C. psittaci 
might be a candidate vaccine against avian chlamydiosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.06.031
PMID: 17640776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1458. BMC Biotechnol. 2018 Jan 30;18(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s12896-018-0418-1.

Genetic engineering of Escherichia coli to improve L-phenylalanine production.

Liu Y(1), Xu Y(1)(2)(3), Ding D(1), Wen J(2), Zhu B(4), Zhang D(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Institutes of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Biological Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering and 
Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, People's Republic of China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China.
(4)School of Food Science and Technology, National Engineering Research Center 
of Seafood, Dalian Polytechnic University, Dalian, 116034, People's Republic of 
China.
(5)Tianjin Institutes of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China. zhang_dw@tib.cas.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, People's Republic of China. zhang_dw@tib.cas.cn.
(7)School of Food Science and Technology, National Engineering Research Center 
of Seafood, Dalian Polytechnic University, Dalian, 116034, People's Republic of 
China. zhang_dw@tib.cas.cn.

BACKGROUND: L-phenylalanine (L-Phe) is an essential amino acid for mammals and 
applications expand into human health and nutritional products. In this study, a 
system level engineering was conducted to enhance L-Phe biosynthesis in 
Escherichia coli.
RESULTS: We inactivated the PTS system and recruited glucose uptake via 
combinatorial modulation of galP and glk to increase PEP supply in the Xllp01 
strain. In addition, the HTH domain of the transcription factor TyrR was 
engineered to decrease the repression on the transcriptional levels of L-Phe 
pathway enzymes. Finally, proteomics analysis demonstrated the third step of the 
SHIK pathway (catalyzed via AroD) as the rate-limiting step for L-Phe 
production. After optimization of the aroD promoter strength, the titer of L-Phe 
increased by 13.3%. Analysis of the transcriptional level of genes involved in 
the central metabolic pathways and L-Phe biosynthesis via RT-PCR showed that the 
recombinant L-Phe producer exhibited a great capability in the glucose 
utilization and precursor (PEP and E4P) generation. Via systems level 
engineering, the L-Phe titer of Xllp21 strain reached 72.9 g/L in a 5 L 
fermenter under the non-optimized fermentation conditions, which was 1.62-times 
that of the original strain Xllp01.
CONCLUSION: The metabolic engineering strategy reported here can be broadly 
employed for developing genetically defined organisms for the efficient 
production of other aromatic amino acids and derived compounds.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-018-0418-1
PMCID: PMC5791370
PMID: 29382315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer 
Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps 
and institutional affiliations.


1459. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2012;6(3):e1564. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0001564. Epub 
2012 Mar 13.

Enhanced protective efficacy of a chimeric form of the schistosomiasis vaccine 
antigen Sm-TSP-2.

Pearson MS(1), Pickering DA, McSorley HJ, Bethony JM, Tribolet L, Dougall AM, 
Hotez PJ, Loukas A.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Tropical Health Alliance and School of Public Health and Tropical 
Medicine, James Cook University, Cairns, Queensland, Australia.

The large extracellular loop of the Schistosoma mansoni tetraspanin, Sm-TSP-2, 
when fused to a thioredoxin partner and formulated with Freund's adjuvants, has 
been shown to be an efficacious vaccine against murine schistosomiasis. 
Moreover, Sm-TSP-2 is uniquely recognised by IgG(1) and IgG(3) from putatively 
resistant individuals resident in S. mansoni endemic areas in Brazil. In the 
present study, we expressed Sm-TSP-2 at high yield and in soluble form in E. 
coli without the need for a solubility enhancing fusion partner. We also 
expressed in E. coli a chimera called Sm-TSP-2/5B, which consisted of Sm-TSP-2 
fused to the immunogenic 5B region of the hookworm aspartic protease and vaccine 
antigen, Na-APR-1. Sm-TSP-2 formulated with alum/CpG showed significant 
reductions in adult worm and liver egg burdens in two separate murine 
schistosomiasis challenge studies. Sm-TSP-2/5B afforded significantly greater 
protection than Sm-TSP-2 alone when both antigens were formulated with alum/CpG. 
The enhanced protection obtained with the chimeric fusion protein was associated 
with increased production of anti-Sm-TSP-2 antibodies and IL-4, IL-10 and IFN-γ 
from spleen cells of vaccinated animals. Sera from 666 individuals from Brazil 
who were infected with S. mansoni were screened for potentially deleterious IgE 
responses to Sm-TSP-2. Anti-Sm-TSP-2 IgE to this protein was not detected (also 
shown previously for Na-APR-1), suggesting that the chimeric antigen Sm-TSP-2/5B 
could be used to safely and effectively vaccinate people in areas where 
schistosomes and hookworms are endemic.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0001564
PMCID: PMC3302818
PMID: 22428079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


1460. Sci Rep. 2013;3:1609. doi: 10.1038/srep01609.

Bacterial expression strategies for several Sus scrofa diacylglycerol kinase 
alpha constructs: solubility challenges.

Petro EJ(1), Raben DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, The Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

We pursued several strategies for expressing either full-length Sus scrofa 
diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) alpha or the catalytic domain (alphacat) in 
Escherichia coli. Alphacat could be extracted, refolded, and purified from 
inclusion bodies, but when subjected to analytical gel filtration 
chromatography, it elutes in the void volume, in what we conclude are 
microscopic aggregates unsuitable for x-ray crystallography. Adding glutathione 
S-transferase, thioredoxin, or maltose binding protein as N-terminal fusion tags 
did not improve alphacat's solubility. Coexpressing with bacterial chaperones 
increased the yield of alphacat in the supernatant after high-speed 
centrifugation, but the protein still elutes in the void upon analytical gel 
filtration chromatography. We believe our work will be of interest to those 
interested in the structure of eukaryotic DGKs, so that they know which 
expression strategies have already been tried, as well as to those interested in 
protein folding and those interested in chaperone/target-protein interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/srep01609
PMCID: PMC3617429
PMID: 23558375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2022 Mar 23:1-10. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2022.2055648. 
Online ahead of print.

Design of a multi-epitope Zika virus vaccine candidate - an in-silico study.

Ezzemani W(1)(2), Windisch MP(3), Altawalah H(4)(5), Guessous F(6), Saile R(2), 
Benjelloun S(1), Kettani A(2), Ezzikouri S(1).

Author information:
(1)Virology Unit, Viral Hepatitis Laboratory, Institut Pasteur du Maroc, 
Casablanca, Morocco.
(2)Laboratoire de Biologie et Santé (URAC34), Départment de Biologie, Faculté 
des Sciences Ben Msik, Hassan II University of Casablanca, Casablanca, Morocco.
(3)Applied Molecular Virology Laboratory, Discovery Biology Department, Institut 
Pasteur Korea, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University, Kuwait.
(5)Virology Unit, Yacoub Behbehani center, Sabah Hospital, Ministry of Health, 
Kuwait.
(6)Faculty of Medicine, Mohammed VI University of Health Sciences (UM6SS), 
Casablanca, Morocco.

Zika virus (ZIKV), an RNA virus, rapidly spreads Aedes mosquito-borne sickness. 
Currently, there are neither effective vaccines nor therapeutics available to 
prevent or treat ZIKV infection. In this study, to address these unmet medical 
needs, we aimed to design B- and T-cell candidate multi-epitope-based subunit 
against ZIKV using an in silico approach. In this study we applied 
immunoinformatics, molecular docking, and dynamic simulation assessments 
targeting the most immunogenic proteins; the capsid (C), envelope (E) proteins 
and the non-stuctural protein (NS1), described in our previous study, and which 
predicted immunodominant B and T cell epitopes. The final non-allergenic and 
highly antigenic multi-epitope was constituted of immunogenic screened-epitopes 
(3 CTL and 3 HTL) and the β-defensin as an adjuvant that have been linked using 
EAAAK, AAY, and GPGPG linkers, respectively. The final construct containing 143 
amino acids was characterized for its allergenicity, antigenicity, and 
physiochemical properties; and found to be safe and immunogenic with a good 
prediction of solubility. The existence of IFN-γ epitopes asserts the capacity 
to trigger strong immune responses. Subsequently, the molecular docking among 
vaccine and immune receptors (TLR2/TLR4) was revealed with a good binding 
affinity with and stable molecular interactions. Molecular dynamics simulation 
confirmed the stability of the complexes. Finally, the construct was subjected 
to in silico cloning demonstrating the efficiently of its expression in E.coli. 
However, this study needs the experimental validation to demonstrate vaccine 
safety and efficacy.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2022.2055648
PMID: 35318896


1462. Biochemistry. 2017 Oct 10;56(40):5380-5390. doi: 10.1021/acs.biochem.7b00517. 
Epub 2017 Sep 20.

Characterization of the Functional Variance in MbtH-like Protein Interactions 
with a Nonribosomal Peptide Synthetase.

Schomer RA(1), Thomas MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison, 
Wisconsin 53706, United States.

Many nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) require MbtH-like proteins (MLPs) 
for solubility or for activation of amino acid substrate by the adenylation 
domain. MLPs are capable of functional crosstalk with noncognate NRPSs at 
varying levels. Using enterobactin biosynthesis in Escherichia coli as a model 
MLP-dependent NRPS system, we use in vivo and in vitro techniques to 
characterize how seven noncognate MLPs influence the function of the 
enterobactin NRPS EntF when the cognate MLP, YbdZ, is absent. Using a series of 
in vitro assays to analyze EntF solubility, adenylation, aminoacylation, and in 
vitro enterobactin production, we show that interactions between MLPs and NRPSs 
are multifaceted and more complex than previously appreciated. We separate MLP 
influence on solubility and function in a manner that shows altered solubility 
is not indicative of a functional MLP/NRPS pair. Although much of the functional 
variation among these noncognates can be explained by differences in EntF 
affinity for an MLP or the extent an MLP alters EntF l-Ser affinity, we 
demonstrate that MLPs can have a broader impact beyond solubility and 
adenylation. First, we show that a noncognate MLP can affect formation of 
l-Ser-S-EntF. Second, under in vitro conditions saturating for substrate and 
MLP, enterobactin production remains compromised in the absence of an 
appropriate MLP partner. These data suggest that we expand our investigations 
into how the MLPs influence NRPS enzymology. A more detailed understanding of 
these influences will be essential for downstream engineering of hybrid NRPS 
systems.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biochem.7b00517
PMCID: PMC5902190
PMID: 28880538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


1463. Vaccine. 2010 Dec 6;28(52):8268-74. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.10.009. Epub 
2010 Oct 20.

Safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant hemagglutinin influenza-flagellin 
fusion vaccine (VAX125) in healthy young adults.

Treanor JJ(1), Taylor DN, Tussey L, Hay C, Nolan C, Fitzgerald T, Liu G, Kavita 
U, Song L, Dark I, Shaw A.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, School of Medicine and Dentistry, 601 Elmwood Ave, 
Box 689, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

BACKGROUND: The need for worldwide seasonal and pandemic vaccine production has 
increased interest in the development of innovative technologies for influenza 
vaccine production. We evaluated a novel influenza vaccine consisting of the 
globular head of the HA1 domain of the A/Solomon Islands/3/2006 (H1N1) influenza 
virus (VAX125) genetically fused to the TLR5 ligand, flagellin, and produced in 
E. coli.
METHODS: 128 healthy adult subjects 18-49 years old were enrolled in a clinical 
trial conducted in three stages at a single center. Stage 1 was an open-label, 
dose escalation study in which the VAX125 vaccine was administered 
intramuscularly (im) at doses of 0.1 μg, 0.3 μg, 1 μg, 2 μg, 3 μg, 5 μg and 8 μg 
to groups of 8 subjects each. Stage 2 was a double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study in which subjects were randomized to receive 1.0 μg and 2.0 μg VAX125 
vaccine doses or placebo, with 16 subjects per group. Finally, an additional 24 
subjects received a 0.5 μg dose of VAX125 in stage 3, which was a 
non-randomized, open label study. In all parts subjects were followed for 
adverse events and sera was tested by hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) and 
microneutralization (MN) against egg-grown virus on days 0, 7, 14, and 28. Serum 
C-reactive protein (CRP), cytokine levels, and anti-flagellin antibody were also 
assessed.
RESULTS: Vaccine was generally well tolerated and there were no serious adverse 
events. Pain at the injection site was the most common local adverse event, and 
was mild or moderate in intensity. Systemic symptoms after vaccination include 
fatigue and headache, and two subjects, who received either 3 or 8 μg, had 
moderately severe systemic symptoms accompanied by substantial increases in 
serum CRP. Serum antibody responses against SI were seen by HAI and MN in most 
study subjects, with the geometric mean titer of post vaccination antibody 
increasing in a dose-dependent fashion. Overall, four-fold or greater serum HAI 
responses were seen in 61 of 96 (64%) subjects who received doses of 0.5 μg or 
greater, including in 46 of 72 subjects who received doses from 0.5 μg to 2 μg.
CONCLUSIONS: The globular head of the influenza HA expressed in a prokaryotic 
system was able to induce a functional antibody response against native virions. 
Vigorous responses were seen at relatively low doses of HA antigen suggesting 
that the addition of flagellin provided a substantial adjuvanting effect. The 
high levels of immune response at low doses of antigen and the relative ease of 
production associated with E. coli expression suggests that this approach may 
represent an effective strategy for enhancing the global influenza vaccine 
supply.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.10.009
PMID: 20969925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2004 Mar;20(2):171-3.

[The expression of truncated YggG protein and preparation of its polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang Y(1), Chen SM, Chen NC, Li J, Zhang B, Zhang XN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China.

AIM: To express truncated YggG protein (TYP) in Escherichia coli and to prepare 
anti-TYPE antibody.
METHODS: Truncated yggg gene was amplified by PCR from the plasmid containing 
full length yggg gene and was cloned into the expression vector pDH2. The 
expression of TYP was achieved by thermal induction. Antiserum was prepared by 
immunizing rabbit with TYP,The titer and specificity of polyclonal antibody were 
detected by Western blot.
RESULTS: Thin-layer scan analysis showed that TYP accounted for about 37.1% of 
total bacterial protein. The antiserum was about 1:2,000 in titier and highly 
specific. Full-length rggG protein could also be recognized by the antiserum.
CONCLUSION: The TYP was highly expressed, and specific anti-TYP antiserum was 
prepared successfully.

PMID: 15191718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. Plasmid. 2003 Nov;50(3):169-75. doi: 10.1016/s0147-619x(03)00046-5.

Fusion protein system designed to provide color to aid in the expression and 
purification of proteins in Escherichia coli.

Park KW(1), Webster DA, Stark BC, Howard AJ, Kim KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical, and Physical Sciences, Illinois Institute 
of Technology, 3101 S Dearborn Chicago, Chicago, IL 60616, USA.

We have designed and constructed a new fusion expression vector (pKW32), which 
contains the His-tagged Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb) coding gene upstream of 
the multiple cloning site. The pKW32 vector was designed to express target 
proteins as VHb fusions, which can be purified in one step by affinity 
chromatography. Due to the color of the heme in VHb, the VHb-fused target 
proteins have a red color that provides a visual aid for estimating their 
expression level and solubility. The red color can also be used as a visual 
marker throughout purification, while the concentration of the fusion protein 
can be determined by measuring the amount of VHb using carbon monoxide 
difference spectra. In addition, because of inherently high solubility of VHb, 
the fusion can increase the solubility of sparingly soluble target proteins. 
Target proteins can be easily separated from His-tagged VHb due to the presence 
of a thrombin-cleavage site between them. A mutant VHb, the soluble domain of 
Vitreoscilla cytochrome bo subunit II, and HIV integrase expressed and purified 
using the pKW32 system have native function. In addition, the integrase, which 
is known to be difficult to purify because of low solubility, was purified 
simply and without solubilizing agents using our system.

DOI: 10.1016/s0147-619x(03)00046-5
PMID: 14597006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1466. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 2;9(7):e101492. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101492. 
eCollection 2014.

Modular optimization of heterologous pathways for de novo synthesis of 
(2S)-naringenin in Escherichia coli.

Wu J(1), Zhou T(1), Du G(2), Zhou J(2), Chen J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China; 
Synergetic Innovation Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Wuxi, Jiangsu, China.

Due to increasing concerns about food safety and environmental issues, bio-based 
production of flavonoids from safe, inexpensive, and renewable substrates is 
increasingly attracting attention. Here, the complete biosynthetic pathway, 
consisting of 3-deoxy-D-arabinoheptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase (DAHPS), 
chorismate mutase/prephenate dehydrogenase (CM/PDH), tyrosine ammonia lyase 
(TAL), 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL), chalcone synthase (CHS), chalcone isomerase 
(CHI), malonate synthetase, and malonate carrier protein, was constructed using 
pre-made modules to overproduce (2S)-naringenin from D-glucose. Modular pathway 
engineering strategies were applied to the production of the flavonoid precursor 
(2S)-naringenin from L-tyrosine to investigate the metabolic space for efficient 
conversion. Modular expression was combinatorially tuned by modifying plasmid 
gene copy numbers and promoter strengths to identify an optimally balanced 
pathway. Furthermore, a new modular pathway from D-glucose to L-tyrosine was 
assembled and re-optimized with the identified optimal modules to enable de novo 
synthesis of (2S)-naringenin. Once this metabolic balance was achieved, the 
optimum strain was capable of producing 100.64 mg/L (2S)-naringenin directly 
from D-glucose, which is the highest production titer from D-glucose in 
Escherichia coli. The fermentation system described here paves the way for the 
development of an economical process for microbial production of flavonoids.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101492
PMCID: PMC4079502
PMID: 24988485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1467. ACS Chem Biol. 2014 Nov 21;9(11):2517-25. doi: 10.1021/cb500431r. Epub 2014 Aug 
29.

Loop electrostatics modulates the intersubunit interactions in ferritin.

Bernacchioni C(1), Ghini V, Pozzi C, Di Pisa F, Theil EC, Turano P.

Author information:
(1)Magnetic Resonance Center CERM, University of Florence , Via Luigi Sacconi 6, 
50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Florence, Italy.

Functional ferritins are 24-mer nanocages that self-assemble with extended 
contacts between pairs of 4-helix bundle subunits coupled in an antiparallel 
fashion along the C2 axes. The largest intersubunit interaction surface in the 
ferritin nanocage involves helices, but contacts also occur between groups of 
three residues midway in the long, solvent-exposed L-loops of facing subunits. 
The anchor points between intersubunit L-loop pairs are the salt bridges between 
the symmetry-related, conserved residues Asp80 and Lys82. The resulting 
quaternary structure of the cage is highly soluble and thermostable. 
Substitution of negatively charged Asp80 with a positively charged Lys in 
homopolymeric M ferritin introduces electrostatic repulsions that inhibit the 
oligomerization of the ferritin subunits. D80K ferritin was present in inclusion 
bodies under standard overexpressing conditions in E. coli, contrasting with the 
wild type protein. Small amounts of fully functional D80K nanocages formed when 
expression was slowed. The more positively charged surface results in a 
different solubility profile and D80K crystallized in a crystal form with a low 
density packing. The 3D structure of D80K variant is the same as wild type 
except for the side chain orientations of Lys80 and facing Lys82. When three 
contiguous Lys groups are introduced in D80KI81K ferritin variant the nanocage 
assembly is further inhibited leading to lower solubility and reduced thermal 
stability. Here, we demonstrate that the electrostatic pairing at the center of 
the L-loops has a specific kinetic role in the self-assembly of ferritin 
nanocages.

DOI: 10.1021/cb500431r
PMID: 25148224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2015 Feb;112(2):229-35. doi: 10.1002/bit.25468. Epub 2014 Oct 
21.

Natural and engineered production of taxadiene with taxadiene synthase.

Soliman S(1), Tang Y.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Department of Chemistry 
and Biochemistry, Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Los 
Angeles, 420 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, California, 90095. solimans@ucla.edu.

Taxadiene synthase (TXS) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of 
paclitaxel, an important anticancer compound. TXS catalyzes the conversion of 
the diterpene precursor geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) into the diterpene 
taxadiene. Due to the importance of taxadiene in the overall biosynthetic 
pathway of paclitaxel biosynthesis, the enzyme TXS has been the subject of 
intense scientific and engineering investigations. The crystal structure of TXS 
was recently elucidated, thereby providing an atomic blueprint for future 
protein engineering efforts. Metabolic engineering of TXS for taxadiene product 
in different microbial and plant organisms have also been extensively performed, 
culminating in the high-titer production in Escherichia coli. Additional aspects 
of taxadiene production by TXS will be discussed in the review, including 
metabolic regulation in native host and possible production by endophytic fungal 
hosts.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25468
PMID: 25257933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Dec;116:42-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.08.019. Epub 2015 
Aug 20.

Tandem SUMO fusion vectors for improving soluble protein expression and 
purification.

Guerrero F(1), Ciragan A(1), Iwaï H(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Program in Structural Biology and Biophysics, Institute of 
Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 65, Helsinki FIN-00014, Finland.
(2)Research Program in Structural Biology and Biophysics, Institute of 
Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 65, Helsinki FIN-00014, Finland. 
Electronic address: hideo.iwai@helsinki.fi.

Availability of highly purified proteins in quantity is crucial for detailed 
biochemical and structural investigations. Fusion tags are versatile tools to 
facilitate efficient protein purification and to improve soluble overexpression 
of proteins. Various purification and fusion tags have been widely used for 
overexpression in Escherichia coli. However, these tags might interfere with 
biological functions and/or structural investigations of the protein of 
interest. Therefore, an additional purification step to remove fusion tags by 
proteolytic digestion might be required. Here, we describe a set of new vectors 
in which yeast SUMO (SMT3) was used as the highly specific recognition sequence 
of ubiquitin-like protease 1, together with other commonly used solubility 
enhancing proteins, such as glutathione S-transferase, maltose binding protein, 
thioredoxin and trigger factor for optimizing soluble expression of protein of 
interest. This tandem SUMO (T-SUMO) fusion system was tested for soluble 
expression of the C-terminal domain of TonB from different organisms and for the 
antiviral protein scytovirin.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2015.08.019
PMID: 26297996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. Methods Enzymol. 2018;604:45-88. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2018.01.035. Epub 2018 Mar 
16.

PKS-NRPS Enzymology and Structural Biology: Considerations in Protein 
Production.

Skiba MA(1), Maloney FP(1), Dan Q(1), Fraley AE(1), Aldrich CC(2), Smith JL(3), 
Brown WC(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
(2)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, United States.
(3)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States. Electronic address: 
janetsmith@umich.edu.
(4)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States. Electronic address: 
wclayb@umich.edu.

The structural diversity and complexity of marine natural products have made 
them a rich and productive source of new bioactive molecules for drug 
development. The identification of these new compounds has led to extensive 
study of the protein constituents of the biosynthetic pathways from the 
producing microbes. Essential processes in the dissection of biosynthesis have 
been the elucidation of catalytic functions and the determination of 3D 
structures for enzymes of the polyketide synthases and nonribosomal peptide 
synthetases that carry out individual reactions. The size and complexity of 
these proteins present numerous difficulties in the process of going from gene 
to structure. Here, we review the problems that may be encountered at the 
various steps of this process and discuss some of the solutions devised in our 
and other labs for the cloning, production, purification, and structure solution 
of complex proteins using Escherichia coli as a heterologous host.

© 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2018.01.035
PMCID: PMC5992914
PMID: 29779664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. Molecules. 2021 Sep 8;26(18):5470. doi: 10.3390/molecules26185470.

NLIP and HAD-like Domains of Pah1 and Lipin 1 Phosphatidate Phosphatases Are 
Essential for Their Catalytic Activities.

Hsu WH(1), Huang YH(1), Chen PR(1), Hsieh LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Tunghai University, No. 1727, Section 4, Taiwan 
Boulevard, Xitun District, Taichung 40704, Taiwan.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pah1 phosphatidate phosphatase (PAP) catalyzes the 
dephosphorylation of phosphatidate to yield diacylglycerol, controlling 
phospholipids and triacylglycerol metabolisms. Pah1 and human Lipin 1 are 
intrinsically disordered proteins with 56% and 43% unfolded regions, 
respectively. Truncation analysis of the conserved and non-conserved regions 
showed that N- and C-conserved regions are essential for the catalytic activity 
of Pah1. PAP activities can be detected in the conserved N-terminal Lipin (NLIP) 
domain and C-terminal Lipin (CLIP)/haloacid dehalogenase (HAD)-like domain of 
Pah1 and Lipin 1, suggesting that the evolutionarily conserved domains are 
essential for the catalytic activity. The removal of disordered hydrophilic 
regions drastically reduced the protein solubility of Pah1. Thioredoxin is an 
efficient fusion protein for production of soluble NLIP-HAD recombinant proteins 
in Escherichia coli.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26185470
PMCID: PMC8470223
PMID: 34576941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest with 
the contents of this article.


1472. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2014 Mar 4;54(3):338-44.

[Effect difference between two segments in invariant chain CLIP on humoral 
immune].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang R, Chen F, Yu W.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effect between two segments (PBS and GBS) of Class II 
-associated invariant chain peptide (CLIP) of invariant chain (Ii) on humoral 
immune by immune carrier.
METHODS: First six hybrids containing Newcastle disease virus (NDV) epitope F2 
and Ii segments (Cyt/TM/F2, Cyt/TM/F2/GBS, Cyt/TM/PBS/F2, Cyt/TM/F2/TRIM, 
Cyt/TM/F2/GBS/TRIM, Cyt/TM/PBS/F2/TRIM) were reconstructed respectively. Then 
they were inserted into the prokaryotic expression vector pET-32a and 
transformed into E. coli Rosetta (DE3) to induce the expression of the 
recombinant proteins. Finally mice were immunized with these purified fusion 
proteins, the specific antibody titers were detected with ELISA, to compare and 
analyze the effect among different groups on the immune response.
RESULTS: All the six groups immunized with these hybrids increased antibody 
titers (from 1.5-fold to 4.9-fold, respectively) compared with the group 
immunized with F2 alone. Within the above six groups, the hybrids containing 
either PBS or GBS had higher antibody titers from 1.6-fold to 2.4-fold than the 
hybrids without the both segments. However, the group of the hybrid containing 
PBS had a 1.5-fold antibody titer higher than the group of GBS hybrid.
CONCLUSION: Ii cytosolic and transmembrane domains could increase the immune 
response, while the segment PBS behaved better than GBS in an immune vector 
based on Ii.

PMID: 24984526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1473. Hum Gene Ther. 2000 Oct 10;11(15):2105-16. doi: 10.1089/104303400750001417.

Efficient transformation of primary human amniocytes by E1 functions of Ad5: 
generation of new cell lines for adenoviral vector production.

Schiedner G(1), Hertel S, Kochanek S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine (ZMMK), University of Cologne, 50931 Cologne, 
Germany. Gudrun.Schneider@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Primary human cells are relatively refractory to transformation by adenoviral E1 
functions. For almost two decades, human embryonic kidney (HEK)-derived 293 
cells have been the only E1-complementing cell line suitable for production of 
E1-deleted adenoviral vectors. More recently, new vector production cell lines 
have been derived from human embryonic retina (HER) cells, a cell type that is 
difficult to obtain. We were surprised to find that readily available primary 
human amniocytes are efficiently transformed by adenoviral E1 functions. We 
selected cell lines that allow high-titer production of recombinant adenoviral 
vectors. The generation of replication-competent adenovirus (RCA) during 
production, caused by homologous recombination between vector and cellular DNA, 
was excluded by designing the transforming plasmid to lack sequence overlap with 
current adenoviral vectors. In addition, we generated an infectious plasmid that 
can be used for convenient generation of first-generation adenoviral vectors in 
Escherichia coli and that matches the E1 complementation in the new production 
cell lines.

DOI: 10.1089/104303400750001417
PMID: 11044912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. Biotechnol Prog. 2005 Sep-Oct;21(5):1412-9. doi: 10.1021/bp050087y.

Cell-free production of aggregation-prone proteins in soluble and active forms.

Kang SH(1), Kim DM, Kim HJ, Jun SY, Lee KY, Kim HJ.

Author information:
(1)DreamBiogen Co., Ltd, 2F, Chungui Bldg., 238-4 Poi-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 
135-260, Korea. kangsh1@dreambiogen.co.kr

We have developed an efficient cell-free protein synthesis system for the 
production of soluble and active eukaryotic proteins that are predominantly 
produced as inclusion bodies in bacteria. S30 extracts (indicating the 
supernatant of cell homogenate when centrifuged at 30,000g) for cell-free 
protein synthesis were prepared from Escherichia coli that was modified to 
overexpress a set of chaperones (GroEL/ES or DnaK/J-GrpE) and disulfide 
isomerase (leader sequence-free mature DsbC expressed in the cytoplasm). The 
solubility and biological activity concentration (biological activity per unit 
volume of cell-free protein synthesis reaction mixture) of the protein 
synthesized by the new cell-free protein synthesis system showed a dramatic 
improvement. Solubility enhancement was most dramatic with the existence of 
DnaK/J-GrpE. It shows that the co-translational interaction with DnaK/J-GrpE 
prior to folding trial is important in maintenance of the aggregation-prone 
protein in a folding-competent soluble state. For maximizing the biological 
activity concentration of the expressed protein, the additional presence of 
GroEL/ES and DsbC was required. When human erythropoietin was expressed in the 
developed cell-free protein synthesis system including endogenously 
overexpressed chaperones and/or DsbC, the biological activity concentration of 
erythropoietin was enhanced by 700%. It implies that the post-translational 
folding and disulfide bond reshuffling as well as co-translational folding are 
important in acquiring functionally active protein from cell-free expression 
system. This is the first report of using S30 extracts including endogenously 
overexpressed chaperones and/or disulfide isomerase for the efficient production 
of soluble and active proteins in cell-free protein synthesis. This new 
cell-free protein synthesis system was capable of introducing much larger 
amounts of chaperones and disulfide isomerase compared to a conventional method 
that supplements them separately. The developed cell-free protein synthesis 
system supported efficient expression of the eukaryotic proteins in soluble and 
active forms without the need of any exogenous addition or coexpression of 
folding effectors.

DOI: 10.1021/bp050087y
PMID: 16209544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1475. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 May;83(1):21-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.02.006. Epub 
2012 Feb 23.

A combined strategy improves the solubility of aggregation-prone single-chain 
variable fragment antibodies.

Sun W(1), Xie J, Lin H, Mi S, Li Z, Hua F, Hu Z.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substance and Function of Natural 
Medicines, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Recombinant single-chain variable fragment (scFv) antibodies have wide 
applications in the areas of biotechnology and medicine. However, there is 
currently no universal expression-purification system for generating different 
soluble scFvs. In this study, A15 and E34, two genes coding scFvs against human 
IL-17A, were fused with N-terminal signal peptide sequences pelB or STII, or 
with highly hydrophilic tags Trx, NusA, or MBP, respectively. These constructs 
were expressed in Escherichia coli. We found that the scFvs fused with either 
NusA or MBP showed a higher solubility than fused with signal peptides or Trx. 
The scFvs were aggregated when the NusA or MBP was removed by thrombin. 
Interestingly, we observed a reduction of precipitation when the fusion proteins 
were expressed in Origami B(DE3)pLysS cells but not in BL21(DE3)pLysS. Because 
cleaving the tags resulted in the aggregation of scFvs, several 
solubility-enhancing additives were added in the digestion buffer and only 
L-arginine (Arg) or Tween20 promoted the solubility. After an affinity 
chromatography, the scFvs were separated from the tags with the purity up to 
90%. The final yield of scFvs from the scFv-MBP system was approximately 8.9 
mg/L of culture medium and 1.5 mg/g of wet weight cells, which was 1.6-fold 
higher than the yield from the scFv-NusA system. The obtained scFvs exhibited 
normal binding affinities and activities after endotoxin removal. In conclusion, 
we describe a strategy combining the fusion tags, the Escherichia coli with 
oxidizing bacterial cytoplasm, and the solubility-enhancing additives for 
expressing and purifying the soluble and functional scFvs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.02.006
PMID: 22387083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Sep;43(1):73-84. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.05.002.

The screening of expression and purification conditions for replicative DNA 
polymerase associated B-subunits, assignment of the exonuclease activity to the 
C-terminus of archaeal pol D DP1 subunit.

Jokela M(1), Raki M, Heikkinen K, Sepponen K, Eskelinen A, Syväoja JE.

Author information:
(1)Biocenter Oulu and Department of Biochemistry, University of Oulu, P.O. Box 
3000, FIN-90014, Oulu, Finland.

The B-subunits of replicative DNA polymerases belong to the superfamily of 
calcineurin-like phosphoesterases and are conserved from Archaea to humans. 
Recently we and others have shown that the B-subunit (DP1) of the archaeal 
family D DNA polymerase is responsible for proofreading 3'-5' exonuclease 
activity. The similarity of B-subunit sequences implies a common fold, but since 
the key catalytic and metal binding residues of the phosphoesterase domain are 
disrupted in the eukaryotic B-subunits, their common function has not been 
identified. To study the structure and activities of B-subunits in more detail, 
we expressed 13 different recombinant B-subunits in Escherichia coli. We found 
that the solubility of a protein could be predicted from the calculated GRAVY 
score. These scores were useful for the selection of proteins for successful 
expression. We optimized the expression and purification of Methanocaldococcus 
(Methanococcus) jannaschii DP1 of DNA polymerase D (MjaDP1) and show that the 
protein co-purifies with a thermostable nuclease activity. Truncation of the 
protein indicates that the N-terminus (aa 1-134) is not needed for catalysis. 
The C-terminal part of the protein containing both the calcineurin-like 
phosphoesterase domain and the OB-fold is sufficient for the nuclease activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.05.002
PMID: 15979340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 May;41(1):207-34. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.01.016.

Protein production by auto-induction in high density shaking cultures.

Studier FW(1).

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY 11973, USA. 
studier@bnl.gov

Inducible expression systems in which T7 RNA polymerase transcribes coding 
sequences cloned under control of a T7lac promoter efficiently produce a wide 
variety of proteins in Escherichia coli. Investigation of factors that affect 
stability, growth, and induction of T7 expression strains in shaking vessels led 
to the recognition that sporadic, unintended induction of expression in complex 
media, previously reported by others, is almost certainly caused by small 
amounts of lactose. Glucose prevents induction by lactose by well-studied 
mechanisms. Amino acids also inhibit induction by lactose during log-phase 
growth, and high rates of aeration inhibit induction at low lactose 
concentrations. These observations, and metabolic balancing of pH, allowed 
development of reliable non-inducing and auto-inducing media in which batch 
cultures grow to high densities. Expression strains grown to saturation in 
non-inducing media retain plasmid and remain fully viable for weeks in the 
refrigerator, making it easy to prepare many freezer stocks in parallel and use 
working stocks for an extended period. Auto-induction allows efficient screening 
of many clones in parallel for expression and solubility, as cultures have only 
to be inoculated and grown to saturation, and yields of target protein are 
typically several-fold higher than obtained by conventional IPTG induction. 
Auto-inducing media have been developed for labeling proteins with 
selenomethionine, 15N or 13C, and for production of target proteins by arabinose 
induction of T7 RNA polymerase from the pBAD promoter in BL21-AI. 
Selenomethionine labeling was equally efficient in the commonly used methionine 
auxotroph B834(DE3) (found to be metE) or the prototroph BL21(DE3).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.01.016
PMID: 15915565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2022 Jan;153:109914. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2021.109914. Epub 2021 Sep 7.

Optimization of protein trans-splicing in an inducible plasmid display system 
for high-throughput screening and selection of soluble proteins.

Yang J(1), Kim N(1), Park W(1), Chun J(1), Kim S(1), Shin J(1), Park YC(2), Han 
K(3), Kim SK(4), Kweon DH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biotechnology, College of Biotechnology and 
Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoburo 2066, Suwon, Gyeonggi 16419, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Bio and Fermentation Convergence Technology, Kookmin 
University, Seoul 02707, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong, 
Gyeonggi 17546, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Food Science and Technology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong, 
Gyeonggi 17546, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: skkim18@cau.ac.kr.
(5)Department of Integrative Biotechnology, College of Biotechnology and 
Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoburo 2066, Suwon, Gyeonggi 16419, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: dhkweon@skku.edu.

Directed evolution is widely used to optimize protein folding and solubility in 
cells. Although the screening and selection of desired mutants is an essential 
step in directed evolution, it generally requires laborious optimization and/or 
specialized equipment. With a view toward designing a more practical procedure, 
we previously developed an inducible plasmid display system, in which the intein 
(auto-processing) and Oct-1 DNA-binding (DBD) domains were used as the protein 
trans-splicing domain and DNA-binding module, respectively. Specifically, the 
N-terminal (CfaN) and C-terminal (CfaC) domains of intein were fused to the 
C-terminal end of the His-tag and the N-terminal end of Oct-1 DBD to generate 
His6-CfaN and CfaC-Oct-1, respectively. For such a system to be viable, the 
efficiency of protein trans-splicing without the protein of interest (POI) 
should be maximized, such that the probability of occurrence is solely dependent 
on the solubility of the POI. To this end, we initially prevented the 
degradation of l-arabinose (the inducer of the PBAD promoter) by employing an 
Escherichia coli host strain deficient in the metabolism of l-arabinose. Given 
that a low expression of His6-CfaN, compared with that of CfaC-Oct-1, was found 
to be conducive to the generation to a soluble product of the protein 
trans-splicing event, we designed the expression of His6-CfaN and CfaC-Oct-1 to 
be inducible from the PBAD and PT7 promoters, respectively. The optimized system 
thus obtained enabled in vitro selection of the plasmid-protein complex with 
high yield. We believe that the inducible plasmid display system developed in 
this study would be applicable to high-throughput screening and/or selection of 
protein variants with enhanced solubility.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2021.109914
PMID: 34670187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Jan;97(1):247-57. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-012-4204-z. Epub 2012 Jun 16.

Microbial production of N-acetyl cis-4-hydroxy-L-proline by coexpression of the 
Rhizobium L-proline cis-4-hydroxylase and the yeast N-acetyltransferase Mpr1.

Bach TM(1), Hara R, Kino K, Ohtsu I, Yoshida N, Takagi H.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and 
Technology, 8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara, 630-0192, Japan.

The proline analogue cis-4-hydroxy-L-proline (CHOP), which inhibits the 
biosynthesis of collagen, has been clinically evaluated as an anticancer drug, 
but its water solubility and low molecular weight limits its therapeutic 
potential since it is rapidly excreted. In addition, CHOP is too toxic to be 
practical as an anticancer drug, due primarily to its systematic effects on 
noncollagen proteins. To promote CHOP's retention in blood and/or to decrease 
its toxicity, N-acetylation of CHOP might be a novel approach as a prodrug. The 
present study was designed to achieve the microbial production of N-acetyl CHOP 
from L-proline by coexpression of L-proline cis-4-hydroxylases converting 
L-proline into CHOP (SmP4H) from the Rhizobium Sinorhizobium meliloti and 
N-acetyltransferase converting CHOP into N-acetyl CHOP (Mpr1) from the yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We constructed a coexpression plasmid harboring both 
the SmP4H and Mpr1 genes and introduced it into Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) or 
its L-proline oxidase gene-disrupted (ΔputA) strain. M9 medium containing 
L-proline produced more N-acetyl CHOP than LB medium containing L-proline. E. 
coli ΔputA cells accumulated L-proline (by approximately 2-fold) compared to 
that in wild-type cells, but there was no significant difference in CHOP 
production between wild-type and ΔputA cells. The addition of NaCl and 
L-ascorbate resulted in a 2-fold increase in N-acetyl CHOP production in the 
L-proline-containing M9 medium. The highest yield of N-acetyl CHOP was achieved 
at 42 h cultivation in the optimized medium. Five unknown compounds were 
detected in the total protein reaction, probably due to the degradation of 
N-acetyl CHOP. Our results suggest that weakening of the degradation or 
deacetylation pathway improves the productivity of N-acetyl CHOP.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-012-4204-z
PMID: 22707053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. Front Microbiol. 2017 Apr 18;8:638. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00638. eCollection 
2017.

Conversion of Glycerol to 3-Hydroxypropanoic Acid by Genetically Engineered 
Bacillus subtilis.

Kalantari A(1)(2), Chen T(1)(3), Ji B(1), Stancik IA(1)(4), Ravikumar V(1), 
Franjevic D(4), Saulou-Bérion C(5), Goelzer A(6), Mijakovic I(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Systems and Synthetic Biology Division, Department of Biology and Biological 
Engineering, Chalmers University of TechnologyGothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Chaire Agro-Biotechnologies Industrielles, AgroParisTechReims, France.
(3)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering (Ministry of Education), Tianjin 
UniversityTianjin, China.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University of ZagrebZagreb, 
Croatia.
(5)UMR Génie et Microbiologie des Procédés Alimentaires (GMPA), AgroParisTech, 
Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Université Paris-SaclayThiverval 
Grignon, France.
(6)Mathématiques et Informatique Appliquuées du Génome à l'Environnement 
(MaIAGE), Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Université 
Paris-SaclayJouy-en-Josas, France.
(7)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical University of 
DenmarkLyngby, Denmark.

3-Hydroxypropanoic acid (3-HP) is an important biomass-derivable platform 
chemical that can be converted into a number of industrially relevant compounds. 
There have been several attempts to produce 3-HP from renewable sources in cell 
factories, focusing mainly on Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Despite the significant progress made in this field, 
commercially exploitable large-scale production of 3-HP in microbial strains has 
still not been achieved. In this study, we investigated the potential of 
Bacillus subtilis as a microbial platform for bioconversion of glycerol into 
3-HP. Our recombinant B. subtilis strains overexpress the two-step heterologous 
pathway containing glycerol dehydratase and aldehyde dehydrogenase from K. 
pneumoniae. Genetic engineering, driven by in silico optimization, and 
optimization of cultivation conditions resulted in a 3-HP titer of 10 g/L, in a 
standard batch cultivation. Our findings provide the first report of successful 
introduction of the biosynthetic pathway for conversion of glycerol into 3-HP in 
B. subtilis. With this relatively high titer in batch, and the robustness of B. 
subtilis in high density fermentation conditions, we expect that our production 
strains may constitute a solid basis for commercial production of 3-HP.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00638
PMCID: PMC5394112
PMID: 28458661


1481. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Jul;100(14):6279-6289. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-016-7437-4. Epub 2016 Mar 21.

Characterization of bifunctional L-glutathione synthetases from Actinobacillus 
pleuropneumoniae and Actinobacillus succinogenes for efficient glutathione 
biosynthesis.

Yang J(1)(2), Li W(1), Wang D(1), Wu H(3), Li Z(4)(5), Ye Q(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, 130 Meilong Road, Shanghai, 200237, China.
(2)Lehrstuhl für Biotechnologie, RWTH Aachen University, Worringerweg 3, Aachen, 
52074, Germany.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, 130 Meilong Road, Shanghai, 200237, China. 
hwu@ecust.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of 
Science and Technology, 130 Meilong Road, Shanghai, 200237, China. 
lizm@ecust.edu.cn.
(5)Shanghai Collaborative Innovation Center for Biomanufacturing Technology, 130 
Meilong Road,Shanghai, 200237, Shanghai, China. lizm@ecust.edu.cn.

Glutathione (GSH), an important bioactive substance, is widely applied in 
pharmaceutical and food industries. In this work, two bifunctional L-glutathione 
synthetases (GshF) from Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae (GshFAp) and 
Actinobacillus succinogenes (GshFAs) were successfully expressed in Escherichia 
coli BL-21(DE3). Similar to the GshF from Streptococcus thermophilus (GshFSt), 
GshFAp and GshFAs can be applied for high titer GSH production because they are 
less sensitive to end-product inhibition (Ki values 33 and 43 mM, respectively). 
The active catalytic forms of GshFAs and GshFAp are dimers, consistent with 
those of GshFPm (GshF from Pasteurella multocida) and GshFSa (GshF from 
Streptococcus agalactiae), but are different from GshFSt (GshF from S. 
thermophilus) which is an active monomer. The analysis of the protein sequences 
and three dimensional structures of GshFs suggested that the binding sites of 
GshFs for substrates, L-cysteine, L-glutamate, γ-glutamylcysteine, 
adenosine-triphosphate, and glycine are highly conserved with only very few 
differences. With sufficient supply of the precursors, the recombinant strains 
BL-21(DE3)/pET28a-gshFas and BL-21(DE3)/pET28a-gshFap were able to produce 36.6 
and 34.1 mM GSH, with the molar yield of 0.92 and 0.85 mol/mol, respectively, 
based on the added L-cysteine. The results showed that GshFAp and GshFAs are 
potentially good candidates for industrial GSH production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-016-7437-4
PMID: 26996628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Platelets. 2018 May;29(3):249-256. doi: 10.1080/09537104.2017.1378808. Epub 2017 
Nov 27.

Development of a high-yield expression and purification system for platelet 
factor 4.

Huynh A(1), Arnold DM(1)(2)(3), Moore JC(1), Smith JW(1), Kelton JG(1), Nazy 
I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medicine , Michael G. DeGroote School of Medicine, McMaster 
University , Hamilton , Ontario , Canada.
(2)b McMaster Centre for Transfusion Research , Hamilton , Ontario , Canada.
(3)c Canadian Blood Services , Hamilton , Ontario.

Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an adverse drug reaction characterized 
by IgG antibodies bound to complexes of platelet factor 4 (PF4) and heparin. The 
majority of diagnostic tests for HIT rely on an exogenous source of PF4 to 
identify anti-PF4/heparin antibodies. These include the PF4-dependent enhanced 
serotonin release assay (PF4-SRA) among others. Using a bacterial expression 
system, we developed a novel and efficient method of producing recombinant human 
PF4 (rhPF4) that is biochemically and antigenically similar to platelet-derived 
human PF4. rhPF4 was produced using the pET expression system in the BL21(DE3) 
strain of Escherichia coli. The system was optimized for protein expression 
using isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside at different induction temperatures 
and incubation times. rhPF4 solubility was improved by using different 
detergents during cell lysis and by purifying with heparin affinity and ion 
exchange chromatography. Biochemical characteristics of rhPF4 were investigated 
using mass spectrometry, SDS-PAGE analysis, and gel filtration chromatography 
and compared to platelet-derived PF4. Antigenic and functional characteristics 
of rhPF4 were studied using the anti-PF4/heparin EIA and the PF4-SRA. Using this 
method, we could produce 11.4 ± 0.6 mg of pure rhPF4 per liter of bacterial 
culture. Absorbance readings from the anti-PF4/heparin EIA using 
platelet-derived and rhPF4 were highly correlated (n = 194; r = 0.9545, 
p < 0.0001); and functional release of serotonin in the PF4-SRA induced by 
anti-PF4/heparin antibodies was similar to either platelet-derived or rhPF4 and 
heparin (r = 0.9597, p < 0.0001). Our method of rhPF4 production is efficient 
and does not rely on a source of platelets. The rhPF4 purification method 
described produces greater yields at a lower cost than other current methods. 
The application of this method can improve the efficiency of biochemical 
investigations and HIT diagnostic testing by supplying sufficient amounts of 
PF4.

DOI: 10.1080/09537104.2017.1378808
PMID: 29172900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1483. Jpn J Infect Dis. 2012 Jul;65(4):322-5. doi: 10.7883/yoken.65.322.

Relationship between stx genotype and Stx2 expression level in Shiga 
toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157 strains.

Kawano K(1), Ono H, Iwashita O, Kurogi M, Haga T, Maeda K, Goto Y.

Author information:
(1)Miyazaki Prefectural Institute for Public Health and Environment, Miyazaki, 
Japan.

To determine the expression level of Shiga toxin (Stx) 2-related toxins (Stx2 
and Stx2c) produced by each of 33 Stx-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157 
strains, stx2 and stx2c mRNAs (stx2-related mRNA) were measured using real-time 
PCR with primers that recognize sequences common to stx2 and stx2c. The amount 
of Stx2 and Stx2c protein was measured using a reversed passive latex 
agglutination (RPLA) kit. Expression of stx2-related mRNA was significantly 
higher in STEC O157 strains carrying the stx2 gene (i.e., stx2, stx1/stx2, or 
stx2/stx2c) than in most strains that carried the stx2c gene but not the stx2 
gene (i.e., stx2c or stx1/stx2c). RPLA might not measure the precise amount of 
each toxin variant; nevertheless, stx2-inclusive strains had 40-fold higher mean 
toxin titers than did strains that carried the stx2c gene but not the stx2 gene, 
with the exception of 1 stx2c strain. Interestingly, 1 stx2c strain that was 
isolated from a patient with severe hemorrhagic diarrhea had the highest 
stx2-related mRNA expression and the highest toxin titer of all 33 STEC O157 
strains. Taken together, these findings indicated that measurement of 
stx2-related mRNA expression could reflect differences in production levels of 
toxins among STEC strains.

DOI: 10.7883/yoken.65.322
PMID: 22814156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1484. J Struct Funct Genomics. 2006 Mar;7(1):1-14. doi: 10.1007/s10969-005-9003-7. 
Epub 2006 Jul 19.

Effect of N-terminal solubility enhancing fusion proteins on yield of purified 
target protein.

Hammarström M(1), Woestenenk EA, Hellgren N, Härd T, Berglund H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), SE-106 91, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

We have studied the effect of solubilising N-terminal fusion proteins on the 
yield of target protein after removal of the fusion partner and subsequent 
purification using immobilised metal ion affinity chromatography. We compared 
the yield of 45 human proteins produced from four different expression vectors: 
three having an N-terminal solubilising fusion protein (the GB1-domain, 
thioredoxin, or glutathione S-transferase) followed by a protease cleavage site 
and a His tag, and one vector having only an N-terminal His tag. We have 
previously observed a positive effect on solubility for proteins produced as 
fusion proteins compared to proteins produced with only a His tag in Escherichia 
coli. We find this effect to be less pronounced when we compare the yields of 
purified target protein after removal of the solubilising fusion although large 
target-dependent variations are seen. On average, the GB1+His fusion gives 
significantly higher final yields of protein than the thioredoxin+His fusion or 
the His tag, whereas GST+His gives lower yields. We also note a strong 
correlation between solubility and target protein size, and a correlation 
between solubility and the presence of peptide fragments that are predicted to 
be natively disordered.

DOI: 10.1007/s10969-005-9003-7
PMID: 16850178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1485. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Jan;87(1):41-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.10.002. Epub 
2012 Oct 22.

Expression, purification and kinetic characterisation of human tissue 
transglutaminase.

Roy I(1), Smith O, Clouthier CM, Keillor JW.

Author information:
(1)Département de chimie, Université de Montréal, C.P. 6128, Succursale 
Centre-ville, Montréal, PQ, Canada H3C 3J7.

The expression of soluble recombinant transglutaminase (TGase) has proven to be 
a challenge for many research groups. Herein, we report a complementary method 
for the expression, in BL21(DE3) Escherichia coli, of recombinant human tissue 
transglutaminase (hTG2) whose solubility is enhanced through N-terminal fusion 
to glutathione S-transferase (GST). Moreover, we report the cleavage of the GST 
tag using PreScission™ Protease (PSP) and purification of hTG2 in its untagged 
form, distinctively suitable for subsequent studies of its remarkable 
conformational equilibrium. The effects of co-solvents and storage conditions on 
stability of purified hTG2 are also reported. Furthermore, we demonstrate for 
the first time the use of a convenient chromogenic assay to measure the activity 
of the human enzyme. The utility of this assay was demonstrated in the 
measurement of the kinetic parameters of a wide variety of substrates and 
inhibitors of both hTG2 and the extensively studied guinea pig liver TGase. 
Finally, comparison of these results provides further evidence for the 
functional similarity of the two enzymes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.10.002
PMID: 23085087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. Plant Methods. 2013 Dec 12;9(1):46. doi: 10.1186/1746-4811-9-46.

High-level diterpene production by transient expression in Nicotiana 
benthamiana.

Brückner K, Tissier A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Metabolic Biology, Leibniz Institute of Plant 
Biochemistry, Weinberg 3, 06120 Halle-Saale, Germany. 
Alain.Tissier@ipb-halle.de.

BACKGROUND: Characterization of plant terpene synthases is typically done by 
production of recombinant enzymes in Escherichia coli. This is often difficult 
due to solubility and codon usage issues. Furthermore, plant terpene synthases 
which are targeted to the plastids, such as diterpene synthases, have to be 
shortened in a more or less empirical approach to improve expression. We report 
here an optimized Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression assay in Nicotiana 
benthamiana for plant diterpene synthase expression and product analysis.
RESULTS: Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of plant diterpene 
synthases in N. benthamiana led to the accumulation of diterpenes within 3 days 
of infiltration and with a maximum at 5 days. Over 50% of the products were 
exported onto the leaf surface, thus considerably facilitating the analysis by 
reducing the complexity of the extracts. The robustness of the method was tested 
by expressing three different plant enzymes, cembratrien-ol synthase from 
Nicotiana sylvestris, casbene synthase from Ricinus communis and levopimaradiene 
synthase from Gingko biloba. Furthermore, co-expression of a 
1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate synthase from tomato and a geranylgeranyl 
diphosphate synthase from tobacco led to a 3.5-fold increase in the amount of 
cembratrien-ol produced, with maximum yields reaching 2500 ng/cm2.
CONCLUSION: With this optimized method for diterpene synthase expression and 
product analysis, a single infiltrated leaf of N. benthamiana would be 
sufficient to produce quantities required for the structure elucidation of 
unknown diterpenes. The method will also be of general use for gene function 
discovery, pathway reconstitution and metabolic engineering of diterpenoid 
biosynthesis in plants.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-4811-9-46
PMCID: PMC3878842
PMID: 24330621


1487. Biomolecules. 2021 May 29;11(6):810. doi: 10.3390/biom11060810.

Anti-EGFR V(HH) Antibody under Thermal Stress Is Better Solubilized with a 
Lysine than with an Arginine SEP Tag.

Kibria MG(1), Fukutani A(1), Akazawa-Ogawa Y(2), Hagihara Y(2), Kuroda Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, 2-24-16 Nakamachi, Koganei-shi, 
Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.
(2)Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology (AIST), 1-8-31, Midorigaoka, Ikeda, Osaka 563-8577, 
Japan.

In this study, we assessed the potential of arginine and lysine 
solubility-enhancing peptide (SEP) tags to control the solubility of a model 
protein, anti-EGFR VHH-7D12, in a thermally denatured state at a high 
temperature. We produced VHH-7D12 antibodies attached with a C-terminal SEP tag 
made of either five or nine arginines or lysines (7D12-C5R, 7D12-C9R, 7D12-C5K 
and 7D12-C9K, respectively). The 5-arginine and 5-lysine SEP tags increased the 
E. coli expression of VHH-7D12 by over 80%. Biophysical and biochemical analysis 
confirmed the native-like secondary and tertiary structural properties and the 
monomeric nature of all VHH-7D12 variants. Moreover, all VHH-7D12 variants 
retained a full binding activity to the EGFR extracellular domain. Finally, 
thermal stress with 45-minute incubation at 60 and 75 °C, where VHH-7D12 
variants are unfolded, showed that the untagged VHH-7D12 formed aggregates in 
all of the four buffers, and the supernatant protein concentration was reduced 
by up to 35%. 7D12-C5R and 7D12-C9R did not aggregate in Na-acetate (pH 4.7) and 
Tris-HCl (pH 8.5) but formed aggregates in phosphate buffer (PB, pH 7.4) and 
phosphate buffer saline (PBS, pH 7.4). The lysine tags (either C5K or C9K) had 
the strongest solubilization effect, and both 7D12-C5K and 7D12-C9K remained in 
the supernatant. Altogether, our results indicate that, under a thermal stress 
condition, the lysine SEP tags solubilization effect is more potent than that of 
an arginine SEP tags, and the SEP tags did not affect the structural and 
functional properties of the protein.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11060810
PMCID: PMC8229009
PMID: 34072518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1488. Infect Immun. 2007 Mar;75(3):1359-63. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00486-06. Epub 2007 Jan 
12.

Potential role for Toll-like receptor 4 in mediating Escherichia coli 
maltose-binding protein activation of dendritic cells.

Fernandez S(1), Palmer DR, Simmons M, Sun P, Bisbing J, McClain S, Mani S, 
Burgess T, Gunther V, Sun W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Virus Diseases, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver 
Spring, MD 20910, USA. stefan.fernandez@na.amedd.army.mil

The Escherichia coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) is used to increase the 
stability and solubility of proteins in bacterial protein expression systems and 
is increasingly being used to facilitate the production and delivery of subunit 
vaccines against various pathogenic bacteria and viruses. The MBP tag is 
presumed inert, with minimum effects on the bioactivity of the tagged protein or 
its biodistribution. However, few studies have characterized the immunological 
attributes of MBP. Here, we analyze the phenotypic and functional outcomes of 
MBP-treated dendritic cells (DCs) and show that MBP induces DC activation and 
production of proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1beta [IL-1beta], IL-6, 
IL-8, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and IL-12p70) within 24 h and strongly 
increases Ikappabeta phosphorylation in treated cells. Interestingly, 
phosphorylation of Ikappabeta was largely abrogated by the addition of 
anti-human Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) antibodies, indicating that MBP activates 
signaling for DC maturation via TLR4. Consistent with this hypothesis, MBP 
activated the TLR4-expressing cell line 293-hTLR4A but not control cultures to 
secrete IL-8. The observed data were independent of lipopolysaccharide 
contamination and support a role for TLR4 in mediating the effects of MBP. These 
results provide insight into a mechanism by which MBP might enhance immune 
responses to vaccine fusion proteins.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00486-06
PMCID: PMC1828564
PMID: 17220311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jun;47(2):355-66. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.11.010. Epub 
2005 Dec 12.

High-throughput identification of refolding conditions for LXRbeta without a 
functional assay.

Lin L(1), Seehra J, Stahl ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural Biology and Computational Chemistry, Chemical and 
Screening Sciences, Wyeth Research, Cambridge, MA 02140, USA. lllin@wyeth.com

The expression of human genes in bacteria is often one of the most efficient 
systems for generating proteins for drug discovery efforts. However, expression 
of mammalian cDNAs in Escherichia coli often results in the production of 
protein that is insoluble and misfolded and thus requires the development of a 
successful refolding procedure to generate active protein. To accelerate the 
process of developing protein refolding protocols, we have developed a 
semi-automated screening and assay system that utilizes an incomplete factorial 
approach to sample a large "space" of refolding conditions based on parameters 
known to influence protein stability and solubility. Testing of these conditions 
is performed readily in a 96-well plate format with minimal sample manipulation. 
The folded protein is resolved and detected using an HPLC equipped with a 
mini-column and a highly sensitive fluorescence detector. This simple method 
requires only a small amount of protein for the entire screen (<1 mg), and most 
importantly, a functional assay is not required to assess the refolding yields. 
Here, we validate the utility of this screening system using two model proteins, 
IL13 and MMP13, and demonstrate its successful application to the refolding of 
our target protein, the ligand-binding domain of rat liver X receptor beta.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.11.010
PMID: 16384713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Infect Immun. 2000 Sep;68(9):4972-9. doi: 10.1128/IAI.68.9.4972-4979.2000.

Molecular cloning, sequencing, expression, and characterization of an 
immunogenic 43-kilodalton lipoprotein of Bartonella bacilliformis that has 
homology to NlpD/LppB.

Padmalayam I(1), Kelly T, Baumstark B, Massung R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Viral and Rickettsial Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. ixp0@cdc.gov

A recombinant clone expressing an immunoreactive antigen of Bartonella 
bacilliformis was isolated by screening a genomic DNA library with serum from a 
patient with the chronic verruga phase of bartonellosis. The clone, pBIPIM-17, 
contained a partial open reading frame that expressed an immunoreactive fusion 
protein. Subsequent rescreening of the library by plaque hybridization resulted 
in the isolation of recombinant clones that contain the entire open reading 
frame. The open reading frame (ORF-401) is capable of encoding a protein of 401 
amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 43 kDa. The deduced amino acid 
sequence of the encoded protein was found to be highly homologous to a recently 
identified bacterial lipoprotein (LppB/NlpD) which has been associated with 
virulence. Evidence has been provided to show that the 43-kDa antigen of B. 
bacilliformis is a lipoprotein and that it is likely to use the same 
biosynthetic pathway as other bacterial lipoproteins. This is the first report 
to date that characterizes a lipoprotein of B. bacilliformis. The immunogenicity 
of the B. bacilliformis LppB homologue was demonstrated by Western blot analysis 
using sera from patients with clinical bartonellosis. Sera from patients who had 
a high titer for Bartonella henselae, the causative agent of bacillary 
angiomatosis and cat scratch disease, also recognized the recombinant 43-kDa 
antigen, suggesting that a homologue of this antigen is present in B. henselae. 
Using a cocktail of synthetic peptides corresponding to predicted major 
antigenic sites, polyclonal antiserum specific for the LppB homologue of B. 
bacilliformis was generated. This antiserum did not recognize the NlpD homologue 
of Escherichia coli or the 43-kDa antigen of B. henselae.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.68.9.4972-4979.2000
PMCID: PMC101713
PMID: 10948113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Protein Sci. 2010 May;19(5):1079-90. doi: 10.1002/pro.388.

A rapid protein folding assay for the bacterial periplasm.

Mansell TJ(1), Linderman SW, Fisher AC, DeLisa MP.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
New York 14853, USA.

An array of genetic screens and selections has been developed for reporting 
protein folding and solubility in the cytoplasm of living cells. However, there 
are currently no analogous folding assays for the bacterial periplasm, despite 
the significance of this compartment for the expression of recombinant proteins, 
especially those requiring important posttranslational modifications (e.g., 
disulfide bond formation). Here, we describe an engineered genetic selection for 
monitoring protein folding in the periplasmic compartment of Escherichia coli 
cells. In this approach, target proteins are sandwiched between an N-terminal 
signal recognition particle (SRP)-dependent signal peptide and a C-terminal 
selectable marker, TEM-1 beta-lactamase. The resulting chimeras are localized to 
the periplasmic space via the cotranslational SRP pathway. Using a panel of 
native and heterologous proteins, we demonstrate that the folding efficiency of 
various target proteins correlates directly with in vivo beta-lactamase activity 
and thus resistance to ampicillin. We also show that this reporter is useful for 
the discovery of extrinsic periplasmic factors (e.g., chaperones) that affect 
protein folding and for obtaining folding-enhanced proteins via directed 
evolution. Collectively, these data demonstrate that our periplasmic folding 
reporter is a powerful tool for screening and engineering protein folding in a 
manner that does not require any structural or functional information about the 
target protein.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.388
PMCID: PMC2868249
PMID: 20440843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2016 Feb;113(2):268-74. doi: 10.1002/bit.25716. Epub 2015 Sep 
4.

Adjuvant effect of B domain of staphyloccocal protein A displayed on the surface 
of hepatitis B virus capsid.

Kim HJ(1), Ahn KY(1), Bae KD(2), Lee J(1), Sim SJ(1), Lee J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, Seoul, Sungbuk-Ku, Republic of Korea.
(2)Berna Biotech Korea Corp., Incheon, Yeonsu-gu, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University, 
Anam-Dong 5-1, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, Seoul, Sungbuk-Ku, Republic of Korea. 
leejw@korea.ac.kr.

The hepatitis B virus (HBV) capsid-based recombinant particles, which display 
both major hydrophilic region of HBV surface antigen (HBV-MHR) and B domain of 
Staphylococcal protein A (SPAB ), were produced using Escherichia coli as 
expression host. SPAB was used as an adjuvant to elicit the immune response to 
HBV-MHR, and its adjuvant effect in the immunized mice was estimated with 
varying the position and amount of SPAB on the HBV capsid particles. Compared to 
the emulsified aluminum gel (alum gel) that is a currently commercialized 
vaccine adjuvant, SPAB caused the significantly higher level of anti-HBV 
immunoglobulin G (IgG) titer and seroconversion rate, and notably SPAB at the 
most surface-exposed position on the recombinant particle led to the highest 
immune response. Moreover, SPAB caused much lower ratio of IgG1 to IgG2a 
compared to alum gel, indicating that helper T-cell 1-mediated immune response 
(responsible for cytotoxic T-cell stimulation) is relatively more stimulated by 
SPAB , unlike alum gel that mainly stimulates helper T-cell 2-mediated immune 
response (responsible for B-cell stimulation). Although HBV-MHR and HBV capsid 
particle were used as proof-of-concept in this study, SPAB can be used as a 
highly effective adjuvant with other disease-specific antigens on the surface of 
other virus-like particles to produce various recombinant vaccines with high 
potency.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25716
PMID: 26222886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. PLoS One. 2009 Dec 2;4(12):e8119. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008119.

Simplified, enhanced protein purification using an inducible, autoprocessing 
enzyme tag.

Shen A(1), Lupardus PJ, Morell M, Ponder EL, Sadaghiani AM, Garcia KC, Bogyo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford School of Medicine, Stanford, California, 
United States of America.

We introduce a new method for purifying recombinant proteins expressed in 
bacteria using a highly specific, inducible, self-cleaving protease tag. This 
tag is comprised of the Vibrio cholerae MARTX toxin cysteine protease domain 
(CPD), an autoprocessing enzyme that cleaves exclusively after a leucine residue 
within the target protein-CPD junction. Importantly, V. cholerae CPD is 
specifically activated by inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP(6)), a 
eukaryotic-specific small molecule that is absent from the bacterial cytosol. As 
a result, when His(6)-tagged CPD is fused to the C-terminus of target proteins 
and expressed in Escherichia coli, the full-length fusion protein can be 
purified from bacterial lysates using metal ion affinity chromatography. 
Subsequent addition of InsP(6) to the immobilized fusion protein induces 
CPD-mediated cleavage at the target protein-CPD junction, releasing untagged 
target protein into the supernatant. This method condenses affinity 
chromatography and fusion tag cleavage into a single step, obviating the need 
for exogenous protease addition to remove the fusion tag(s) and increasing the 
efficiency of tag separation. Furthermore, in addition to being timesaving, 
versatile, and inexpensive, our results indicate that the CPD purification 
system can enhance the expression, integrity, and solubility of intractable 
proteins from diverse organisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008119
PMCID: PMC2780291
PMID: 19956581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: A.S., P.J.L., K.C.G., and 
M.B. are listed as inventors on a provisional patent application describing the 
CPD purification system technology. This patent will not alter the authors' 
adherence to PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. Materials and 
information associated with the authors' publication will be freely available to 
those as requested for the purpose of academic, non-commercial research.


1494. Sci Rep. 2017 Aug 25;7(1):9558. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-09749-2.

Rational identification of aggregation hotspots based on secondary structure and 
amino acid hydrophobicity.

Matsui D(1)(2), Nakano S(1)(2)(3), Dadashipour M(1)(2), Asano Y(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama 
Prefectural University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama, 939-0398, Japan.
(2)Asano Active Enzyme Molecule Project, ERATO, JST, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, 
Toyama, 939-0398, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Shizuoka, 52-1 Yada, Suruga-ku, Shizuoka, 422-8526, Japan.
(4)Biotechnology Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama 
Prefectural University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama, 939-0398, Japan. 
asano@pu-toyama.ac.jp.
(5)Asano Active Enzyme Molecule Project, ERATO, JST, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, 
Toyama, 939-0398, Japan. asano@pu-toyama.ac.jp.

Insolubility of proteins expressed in the Escherichia coli expression system 
hinders the progress of both basic and applied research. Insoluble proteins 
contain residues that decrease their solubility (aggregation hotspots). Mutating 
these hotspots to optimal amino acids is expected to improve protein solubility. 
To date, however, the identification of these hotspots has proven difficult. In 
this study, using a combination of approaches involving directed evolution and 
primary sequence analysis, we found two rules to help inductively identify 
hotspots: the α-helix rule, which focuses on the hydrophobicity of amino acids 
in the α-helix structure, and the hydropathy contradiction rule, which focuses 
on the difference in hydrophobicity relative to the corresponding amino acid in 
the consensus protein. By properly applying these two rules, we succeeded in 
improving the probability that expressed proteins would be soluble. Our methods 
should facilitate research on various insoluble proteins that were previously 
difficult to study due to their low solubility.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-09749-2
PMCID: PMC5573320
PMID: 28842596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1495. Biotechnol Lett. 2021 Sep;43(9):1933-1944. doi: 10.1007/s10529-021-03166-2. Epub 
2021 Jul 27.

A novel recombinant protein vaccine containing the different E7 proteins of the 
HPV16, 18, 6, 11 E7 linked to the HIV-1 Tat (47-57) improve cytotoxic immune 
responses.

Mousavi T(1)(2), Valadan R(1)(3), Rafiei A(1)(3), Abbasi A(4), Haghshenas MR(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Research Center (MCBRC), Faculty of Medicine, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(2)Molecular and Cell Biology Research Center (MCBRC), Hemoglobinopathy 
Institute, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(3)Immunology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(4)Department of Community Medicine, Sari Branch, Islamic Azad University, Sari, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Molecular and Cell Biology Research Center, 
Faculty of Medicine, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran. 
Haghshenas2001@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: Human papillomavirus infection (HPV) is the most common viral 
infection which is causes of cervical, penal, vulvar, anal and, oropharyngeal 
cancer. E7 protein of HPV is a suitable target for induction of T cell responses 
and controlling HPV-related cancer. The aim of the current study was to designed 
and evaluated a novel fusion protein containing the different E7 proteins of the 
HPV 16, 18, 6 and 11, linked to the cell-penetrating peptide HIV-1 Tat 49-57, in 
order to improve cytotoxic immune responses in in-vitro and in-vivo.
RESULTS: In this study whole sequence of HPV16,18,6,11 E7-Tat (47-57) and 
HPV16,18,6,11 E7 cloned into the vector and expressed in E. coli (BL21). The 
purified protein was confirmed by SDS page and western blotting and then 
injected into the C57BL/6 mice. The efficiency of the fusion protein vaccine was 
assessed by antibody response assay, cytokine assay (IL-4 and IFN-γ), CD + 8 
cytotoxicity assay and tumor challenge experiment. Result showed that fusion 
proteins containing Adjuvant (IFA,CFA) could express higher titer of antibody. 
Also, we showed that vaccination with E7-Tat and, E7-Tat-ADJ induced high 
frequencies of E7-specific CD8 + T cells and CD107a expression as well as IFN-γ 
level and enhanced long-term survival in the therapeutic animal models.
CONCLUSION: Our finding suggested that this novel fusion protein vaccine was 
able to induce therapeutic efficacy and immunogenicity by improving CD8 + T cell 
in TC-1 tumor bearing mice; so this vaccine may be appreciated for research 
against HPV and tumor immunotherapies.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-021-03166-2
PMID: 34313864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. J Bacteriol. 2002 Aug;184(15):4246-58. doi: 10.1128/JB.184.15.4246-4258.2002.

pH-dependent expression of periplasmic proteins and amino acid catabolism in 
Escherichia coli.

Stancik LM(1), Stancik DM, Schmidt B, Barnhart DM, Yoncheva YN, Slonczewski JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio 43022, USA.

Escherichia coli grows over a wide range of pHs (pH 4.4 to 9.2), and its own 
metabolism shifts the external pH toward either extreme, depending on available 
nutrients and electron acceptors. Responses to pH values across the growth range 
were examined through two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-D gels) of the proteome 
and through lac gene fusions. Strain W3110 was grown to early log phase in 
complex broth buffered at pH 4.9, 6.0, 8.0, or 9.1. 2-D gel analysis revealed 
the pH dependence of 19 proteins not previously known to be pH dependent. At low 
pH, several acetate-induced proteins were elevated (LuxS, Tpx, and YfiD), 
whereas acetate-repressed proteins were lowered (Pta, TnaA, DksA, AroK, and 
MalE). These responses could be mediated by the reuptake of acetate driven by 
changes in pH. The amplified proton gradient could also be responsible for the 
acid induction of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) enzymes SucB and SucC. In 
addition to the autoinducer LuxS, low pH induced another potential autoinducer 
component, the LuxH homolog RibB. pH modulated the expression of several 
periplasmic and outer membrane proteins: acid induced YcdO and YdiY; base 
induced OmpA, MalE, and YceI; and either acid or base induced OmpX relative to 
pH 7. Two pH-dependent periplasmic proteins were redox modulators: Tpx 
(acid-induced) and DsbA (base-induced). The locus alx, induced in extreme base, 
was identified as ygjT, whose product is a putative membrane-bound redox 
modulator. The cytoplasmic superoxide stress protein SodB was induced by acid, 
possibly in response to increased iron solubility. High pH induced amino acid 
metabolic enzymes (TnaA and CysK) as well as lac fusions to the genes encoding 
AstD and GabT. These enzymes participate in arginine and glutamate catabolic 
pathways that channel carbon into acids instead of producing alkaline amines. 
Overall, these data are consistent with a model in which E. coli modulates 
multiple transporters and pathways of amino acid consumption so as to minimize 
the shift of its external pH toward either acidic or alkaline extreme.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.184.15.4246-4258.2002
PMCID: PMC135203
PMID: 12107143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. Bioresour Technol. 2015 Oct;194:137-43. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2015.07.024. 
Epub 2015 Jul 10.

Triton X-100 enhances the solubility and secretion ratio of aggregation-prone 
pullulanase produced in Escherichia coli.

Duan X(1), Zou C(1), Wu J(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi 214122, China; School of Biotechnology and Key Laboratory 
of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan University, 1800 
Lihu Avenue, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi 214122, China; School of Biotechnology and Key Laboratory 
of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan University, 1800 
Lihu Avenue, Wuxi 214122, China. Electronic address: jingwu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

The pullulanase from Bacillus deramificans is an industrially useful 
starch-debranching enzyme that is difficult to produce in large quantities. In 
this study, B. deramificans pullulanase was found to be an aggregation-prone 
protein that can be solubilized from the insoluble fraction by surfactants in 
vitro. Studying the effects of various surfactants on pullulanase production in 
Escherichia coli in shake flasks revealed that optimal pullulanase production 
could be obtained by adding 0.5% Triton X-100 during the later period of 
fermentation. A modified fed-batch fermentation strategy was then applied to the 
production of pullulanase in a 3-L fermentor. When supplemented with 0.5% Triton 
X-100 at 40 h, the maximal extracellular pullulanase production and secretion 
ratio were 812.4 U mL(-1) and 86.0%, which were 46.2- and 47.8-fold that of the 
control, respectively.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2015.07.024
PMID: 26188556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. Nat Biotechnol. 2005 Jun;23(6):736-40. doi: 10.1038/nbt1097. Epub 2005 May 22.

Intein-based biosynthetic incorporation of unlabeled protein tags into 
isotopically labeled proteins for NMR studies.

Züger S(1), Iwai H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Saskatchewan, 110 Science Place, 
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N 5C9, Canada.

Segmental isotopic labeling of proteins using protein ligation is a recently 
established in vitro method for incorporating isotopes into one domain or region 
of a protein to reduce the complexity of NMR spectra, thereby facilitating the 
NMR analysis of larger proteins. Here we demonstrate that segmental isotopic 
labeling of proteins can be conveniently achieved in Escherichia coli using 
intein-based protein ligation. Our method is based on a dual expression system 
that allows sequential expression of two precursor fragments in media enriched 
with different isotopes. Using this in vivo approach, unlabeled protein tags can 
be incorporated into isotopically labeled target proteins to improve protein 
stability and solubility for study by solution NMR spectroscopy.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt1097
PMID: 15908942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2010 Oct;29(4):587-93. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2010.06.005. 
Epub 2010 Jun 9.

Identification of adhesin-like protein ALP41 from Spiroplasma eriocheiris and 
induction immune response of Eriocheir sinensis.

Meng Q(1), Li W, Liang T, Jiang X, Gu W, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Biodiversity & Biotechnology, College of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, 1 Wenyuan Road, Nanjing 210046, China.

Spiroplasma eriocheiris is a causative agent of the tremor disease (TD) of 
Chinese mitten crab Eriocheir sinensis which is a novel pathogen of aquatic 
animals found in recent years. A gene, adhesin-like protein (ALP41), of S. 
eriocheiris from E. sinensis was identified and its characteristics were 
analyzed in present paper. The role of this pathogen's host-binding protein in 
promoting immune responses was characterized through analyzing the interaction 
between S. eriocheiris and E. sinensis. The full-length DNA of ALP41 is 1074 bp 
and encodes 357 amino acid residues. The theoretical molecular weight and 
isoelectric point for the ALP41 are 40.94 kDa and 4.79, respectively. Since UGA 
is read as a tryptophan codon and not as a termination signal in most Mollicute 
species, the ALP41 gene was site-mutated from TGA to TGG and transcribed in 
Escherichia coli to full expression; the titer of rabbits anti-ALP41 serum was 
about 1:6000. A specific immunoreactive band was identified when rabbits anti-S. 
eriocheiris serum was opposed to the recombinant protein. The ALP41 band was 
detected using anti-ALP41 serum and the total proteins of S. eriocheiris. 
Realtime-PCR was used for detection of expression levels of the immune genes in 
E. sinensis. Among the examined genes, the mRNA expression of 
anti-lipopolysaccharide factor (ALF), prophenoloxidase (proPO), peroxiredoxin 6 
(Prx6) and pacifastin light chain (PLC) in E. sinensis were significantly 
induced after ALP41 treatment.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2010.06.005
PMID: 20538062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2008 Apr;49(Pt 4):239-46. doi: 10.1042/BA20070140.

New properties of inclusion bodies with implications for biotechnology.

Peternel S(1), Jevsevar S, Bele M, Gaberc-Porekar V, Menart V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosynthesis and Biotransformation, National Institute of 
Chemistry, Hajdrihova 19, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. spela.peternel@ki.si

Human G-CSF (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor) is a well-known 
biopharmaceutical drug being mostly produced by overexpression in Escherichia 
coli, where it appears in the form of IBs (inclusion bodies). Following our 
initial findings that properties of inclusion bodies strongly depend on the 
growth conditions used, especially growth temperature, we compared the 
characteristics of the G-CSF inclusion bodies prepared at two different 
temperatures, namely 42 and 25 degrees C. IBs formed at higher growth 
temperatures have properties similar to the usually described IBs, containing 
mainly denatured recombinant protein and being almost completely insoluble in 
aqueous solutions containing mild detergents or low concentrations of 
denaturants. In contrast, when produced at lower growth temperature of 25 
degrees C, IBs show significantly different properties. Such IBs contain a 
significant proportion of G-CSF that is easily and directly extractable in the 
biologically active form, using non-denaturing solutions, which can be exploited 
for environmentally friendly biotechnological production. Irrespective of the 
production temperature, a significant decrease in IB volume was observed when 
transferring IBs from neutral to acidic (around 4) pH. Irreversible contraction 
of IBs at low pH was documented at the macro- and micro-scopic level using 
electron microscopy as a characterization tool. Together with volume decrease, a 
higher density, and thus decreased solubility, of IBs was observed at low pH, 
resulting in slower and less efficient extractability of the target protein.

DOI: 10.1042/BA20070140
PMID: 17708747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Int J Nanomedicine. 2019 Nov 29;14:9337-9349. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S218458. 
eCollection 2019.

Biotinylated Single-Domain Antibody-Based Blocking ELISA for Detection of 
Antibodies Against Swine Influenza Virus.

Du T(#)(1)(2), Zhu G(#)(1)(2), Wu X(1)(2), Fang J(1)(2), Zhou EM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Northwest A&F University, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.
(2)Scientific Observing and Experimental Station of Veterinary Pharmacology and 
Diagnostic Technology, Ministry of Agriculture, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, 
People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a common method for 
diagnosing swine influenza. However, the production of classical antibodies is 
both costly and time-consuming. As a promising alternative diagnostic tool, 
single-domain antibodies (sdAbs) offer the advantages of simpler and faster 
generation, good stability and solubility, and high affinity and specificity.
METHODS: Phage display technology was used to isolate sdAbs against the SIV-NP 
protein from a camel VHH library. The sdAb5 was fused to the biotin acceptor 
peptide (BAP) and a His-Tag for its expression as monomeric and site-specific 
biotinylation in E.coli to develop an sdAb-based blocking ELISA (sdAb-ELISA). In 
the sdAb-ELISA, the anti-SIV antibodies from swine samples were used to block 
the binding between the biotinylated sdAb5 and SIV-NP protein coated on the 
ELISA plate. The specificity, sensitivity, and reproducibility of sdAb-ELISA 
were determined. In addition, consistency among sdAb-ELISA, commercial ELISA 
kit, and Western blot was evaluated.
RESULTS: Six SIV-NP-specific sdAbs were isolated, among which sdAb5 was 
identified as a dominant sdAb with higher reactivity. The cut-off value of 
biotinylated sdAb5-based bELISA was determined to be 29.8%. Compared with the 
positive reference serum against five different types of swine viruses, the 
developed sdAb-ELISA showed 100% specificity. The detection limit of sdAb-ELISA 
was 1:160 in an anti-SIV positive reference serum, which is lower than that of 
the commercial ELISA kit (1:20). In 78 diluted anti-SIV positive serum (1:80), 
21 and 42 samples were confirmed as positive by the commercial ELISA kit and 
sdAb-ELISA, respectively. The coefficients of variation of intra- and 
inter-assay were 1.79-4.57% and 5.54-9.98%, respectively. The sdAb-ELISA and 
commercial ELISA kit showed a consistency of 94.17% in clinical swine serum 
samples. Furthermore, the coincidence rate was 96.67% between the results 
detected by sdAb-ELISA and Western blot.
CONCLUSION: A specific, sensitive, and reproducible sdAb-ELISA was successfully 
developed, which offers a new, promising method to detect anti-SIV antibodies in 
swine serum.

© 2019 Du et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S218458
PMCID: PMC6890519
PMID: 31819435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


1502. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 21;11(12):e0167935. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167935. 
eCollection 2016.

A Therapeutic Uricase with Reduced Immunogenicity Risk and Improved Development 
Properties.

Nyborg AC(1), Ward C(1), Zacco A(1), Chacko B(1), Grinberg L(1), Geoghegan 
JC(1), Bean R(1), Wendeler M(1), Bartnik F(1), O'Connor E(1), Gruia F(1), Iyer 
V(1), Feng H(1), Roy V(1), Berge M(1), Miner JN(2), Wilson DM(2), Zhou D(2), 
Nicholson S(1), Wilker C(2), Wu CY(3), Wilson S(1), Jermutus L(4), Wu H(1), Owen 
DA(4), Osbourn J(4), Coats S(1), Baca M(1).

Author information:
(1)MedImmune LLC, Gaithersburg, Maryland, United States of America.
(2)Ardea Biosciences, San Diego, California, United States of America.
(3)MedImmune LLC, Mountain View, California, United States of America.
(4)MedImmune LTD, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Humans and higher primates are unique in that they lack uricase, the enzyme 
capable of oxidizing uric acid. As a consequence of this enzyme deficiency, 
humans have high serum uric acid levels. In some people, uric acid levels rise 
above the solubility limit resulting in crystallization in joints, acute 
inflammation in response to those crystals causes severe pain; a condition known 
as gout. Treatment for severe gout includes injection of non-human uricase to 
reduce serum uric acid levels. Krystexxa® is a hyper-PEGylated pig-baboon 
chimeric uricase indicated for chronic refractory gout that induces an 
immunogenic response in 91% of treated patients, including infusion reactions 
(26%) and anaphylaxis (6.5%). These properties limit its use and effectiveness. 
An innovative approach has been used to develop a therapeutic uricase with 
improved properties such as: soluble expression, neutral pH solubility, high E. 
coli expression level, thermal stability, and excellent activity. More than 200 
diverse uricase sequences were aligned to guide protein engineering and reduce 
putative sequence liabilities. A single uricase lead candidate was identified, 
which showed low potential for immunogenicity in >200 human donor samples 
selected to represent diverse HLA haplotypes. Cysteines were engineered into the 
lead sequence for site specific PEGylation and studies demonstrated >95% 
PEGylation efficiency. PEGylated uricase retains enzymatic activity in vitro at 
neutral pH, in human serum and in vivo (rats and canines) and has an extended 
half-life. In canines, an 85% reduction in serum uric acid levels was observed 
with a single subcutaneous injection. This PEGylated, non-immunogenic uricase 
has the potential to provide meaningful benefits to patients with gout.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167935
PMCID: PMC5176304
PMID: 28002433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Aside from being employed by the company 
supporting the work, we have no significant competing financial, professional or 
personal interests that might have influenced the performance or presentation of 
the work described in this manuscript. The commercial affiliates do not alter 
our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


1503. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 Nov 28;28(11):1850-1858. doi: 
10.4014/jmb.1805.05061.

Biocatalytic Production of Glucosamine from N-Acetylglucosamine by 
Diacetylchitobiose Deacetylase.

Jiang Z(1), Lv X(1)(2), Liu Y(1)(2), Shin HD(3), Li J(2), Du G(1)(2), Liu 
L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, P.R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi 214122, P.R. China.
(3)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta GA 30332, USA.

Glucosamine (GlcN) is widely used in the nutraceutical and pharmaceutical 
industries. Currently, GlcN is mainly produced by traditional multistep chemical 
synthesis and acid hydrolysis, which can cause severe environmental pollution, 
require a long prodution period but a lower yield. The aim of this work was to 
develop a whole-cell biocatalytic process for the environment-friendly synthesis 
of glucosamine (GlcN) from N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc). We constructed a 
recombinant Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis strains as efficient 
whole-cell biocatalysts via expression of diacetylchitobiose deacetylase (Dacph) 
from Pyrococcus furiosus. Although both strains were biocatalytically active, 
the performance of B. subtilis was better. To enhance GlcN production, optimal 
reaction conditions were found: B. subtilis whole-cell biocatalyst 18.6 g/l, 
temperature 40°C, pH 7.5, GlcNAc concentration 50 g/l and reaction time 3 h. 
Under the above conditions, the maximal titer of GlcN was 35.3 g/l, the molar 
conversion ratio was 86.8% in 3-L bioreactor. This paper shows an efficient 
biotransformation process for the biotechnological production of GlcN in B. 
subtilis that is more environmentally friendly than the traditional multistep 
chemical synthesis approach. The biocatalytic process described here has the 
advantage of less environmental pollution and thus has great potential for 
large-scale production of GlcN in an environment-friendly manner.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1805.05061
PMID: 30086621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Biotechnol J. 2019 Apr;14(4):e1800214. doi: 10.1002/biot.201800214. Epub 2018 
Oct 18.

CRD(SAT) Generated by pCARGHO: A New Efficient Lectin-Based Affinity Tag Method 
for Safe, Simple, and Low-Cost Protein Purification.

Kriznik A(1), Yéléhé-Okouma M(1)(2), Lec JC(1), Groshenry G(1), Le Cordier H(1), 
Charron C(1), Quinternet M(3), Mazon H(1), Talfournier F(1), Boschi-Muller S(1), 
Jouzeau JY(1)(2), Reboul P(1).

Author information:
(1)Université de Lorraine, CNRS, Ingénierie Moléculaire et Pathologie 
Articulaire (IMoPA), F-54000, Nancy, France.
(2)Département de Pharmacologie Clinique et Toxicologie, Centre Hospitalier 
Régional Universitaire, F-54000, Nancy, France.
(3)Unité Mixte de Service (UMS) 2008, Ingénierie Biologie Santé en Lorraine 
(IBSLor), F-54000, Nancy, France.

Purification of recombinant proteins remains a bottleneck for downstream 
processing. The authors engineered a new galectin 3 truncated form (CRDSAT ), 
functionally and structurally characterized, with preserved solubility and 
lectinic activity. Taking advantage of these properties, the authors designed an 
expression vector (pCARGHO), suitable for CRDSAT -tagged protein expression in 
prokaryotes. CRDSAT binds to lactose-Sepharose with a high specificity and 
facilitates solubilization of fusion proteins. This tag is structurally stable 
and can be easily removed from fusion proteins using TEV protease. Furthermore, 
due to their basic isoelectric point (pI), CRDSAT , and TEV are efficiently 
eliminated using cationic exchange chromatography. When pI of the protein of 
interest (POI) and CRDSAT are close, other chromatographic methods are 
successfully tested. Using CRDSAT tag, the authors purified several proteins 
from prokaryote and eukaryote origin and demonstrated as examples, the 
preservation of both Escherichia coli Thioredoxin 1 and human CDC25Bcd 
activities. Overall, yields of proteins obtained after tag removal are about 
5-50 mg per litre of bacterial culture. Our purification method displays various 
advantages described herein that may greatly interest academic laboratories, 
biotechnology, and pharmaceutical companies.

© 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201800214
PMID: 30298550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2011 Oct;30(5):427-32. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2011.0047.

Monoclonal antibodies against a Mycobacterium tuberculosis Ag85B-Hsp16.3 fusion 
protein.

Zhao S(1), Shi J, Zhang C, Zhao Y, Mao F, Yang W, Bai B, Zhang H, Shi C, Xu Z.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infection and Immunology, Laboratory Animals Center, Fourth 
Military Medical University, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, China.

The secreted Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) proteins, Ag85B and Hsp16.3, have 
been the focus of intensive research in recent years. These proteins have high 
sensitivity in bacterium-negative tuberculosis (TB) patients, and are valuable 
for the rapid diagnosis of bacterium-negative TB. Fusion proteins including 
multiple antigens such as Ag85B and Hsp16.3 provide improved sensitivity and 
specificity for serological diagnosis of active TB compared with a single 
antigen. Many studies have shown that the production of MAbs recognizing a 
specific repertoire of M. tuberculosis antigens and the tests based on 
monoclonal antibodies have been found to be valuable in positive detection of 
TB, particularly for smear-positive pulmonary TB. A number of MAbs are currently 
used for serodiagnosis of TB. Therefore, an Ag85B-Hsp16.3 fusion protein was 
expressed and purified using an E. coli system in this study. Three 
Ag85B-Hsp16.3 fusion protein-specific MAbs were generated by routine murine 
hybridoma techniques. The titer, specificity, and relative affinity of all three 
MAbs were determined by ELISA and the serological responses were analyzed. The 
levels of antigens in a proportion of TB patients were shown to be significantly 
higher than those in healthy controls. The sensitivity and specificity of the 
currently available detection systems is likely to be improved by the employment 
of a combination of these MAbs with others that are already in use.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2011.0047
PMID: 22008069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. Bioengineered. 2015;6(1):62-6. doi: 10.1080/21655979.2014.1002301. Epub 2015 Jan 
21.

Cloning, soluble expression, and purification of the RNA polymerase II subunit 
RPB5 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Chhetri G(1), Ghosh A, Chinta R, Akhtar S, Tripathi T.

Author information:
(1)a Molecular and Structural Biophysics Laboratory; Department of Biochemistry 
; North-Eastern Hill University ; Shillong , India.

We report the molecular cloning, expression, and single-step homogeneous 
purification of RNA polymerase II subunit RPB5 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
RPB5 is a 210 amino acid nuclear protein that functions as the fifth largest 
subunit of polymerase II and plays a central role in transcription. The gene 
that codes for RPB5 was generated by amplification by polymerase chain reaction. 
It was then inserted in the expression vector pET28a(+) under the 
transcriptional control of the bacteriophage T7 promoter and lac operator. 
BL21(DE3) Escherichia coli strain transformed with the rpb5 expression vector 
pET28a(+)-rpb5 accumulates large amounts of a soluble protein of about 30 kDa 
(25 kDa plus 5 kDa double His6-Tag at N and C-terminal). The protein was 
purified to homogeneity using immobilized metal affinity chromatography. RPB5 
recombinant protein was further confirmed by immunoblotting with anti-His 
antibody. In this study, the expression and purification procedures have 
provided a simple and efficient method to obtain pure RPB5 in large quantities. 
This will provide an opportunity to study the role of S. cerevisiae RPB5 in gene 
expression and transcription regulation. Furthermore, it can provide additional 
knowledge of the interaction partners of RPB5 during various steps of 
transcription and gene expression.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2014.1002301
PMCID: PMC4601343
PMID: 25551420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. Zhonghua Kou Qiang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Oct 9;53(10):674-680. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1002-0098.2018.10.006.

[Acquisition and the immunogenicity of the outer membrane FomA protein of 
Fusobacterium nucleatum].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ma L(1), Feng XP(2), Wu QL(3), Zhang XY, Zhang X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Pediatric Dentistry, Stomatological Hospital, 
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300010, China.
(2)Department of Preventive Dentistry, Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine & Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology & 
Shanghai Research Institute of Stomatology & National Clinical Research Center 
of Stomatology, Shanghai 200011, China.
(3)Tianjin Neurosurgery Institute, Tianjin 300012, China.
(4)Department of Endodontics, Stomatological Hospital of Tianjin Medical 
University, Tianjin 300010, China.

Objective: To express and purify outer membrane protein FomA of Fusobacterium 
nucleatum (Fn) through gene recombination technique with Escherichia coli (Ec) 
expression system, and to detect the immunogenicity and the immune effects of 
the recombinant protein on gingival tissues. Methods: The gene recombination 
technique and Ec expression system were used to express and purified the FomA 
protein. Totally 20 C57 mice were immuned with the protein or the phosphate 
buffer solution (PBS) buffer by subcutaneous injection (each 10 mice), and the 
specific FomA antibody was detection in mice serum. The immunogenicity of FomA 
protein was assessed by comparing the differences between groups. Furthermore, 
the model of mice gum abscess was constructed with Fn or Fn and Porphyromonas 
gingivalis (Pg) mixed suspension used the above mice. The score of the gingival 
abscess was recorded and the interleukin (IL)-1β in gum tissue and mice serum 
was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method, and the differences 
of the indexes between groups were compared to evaluate the effect of the FomA 
protein immunization. Results: Totally 1.0-1.5 g FomA protein were successfully 
obtained and the protein purity was over 90%. The FomA specific antibody was 
detected in the serum of mice by subcutaneous injection of the protein, and the 
antibody titer reached the highest level in 2 weeks after secondary 
immunization. The model of submaxillary gingival abscess was successfully 
constructed. In the Fn model, the score of the FomA protein immune group was 
(1.82±0.35), and the PBS control group was (2.62±0.71), with statistically 
significant difference between the two groups (P=0.049). In the Fn+Pg mixture 
model, the score of gingival abscess in the FomA immune group (2.31±0.55) was 
lower than that in PBS group (3.63±0.45), and the difference was statistically 
significant (P=0.003). Both in Fn and Fn+Pg injection group, the concentration 
of IL-1β in the serum of FomA immune mice and gingival tissues was lower than 
that of PBS control mice (P<0.001). Conclusions: The recombinant FomA protein 
can be acquired by Ec expression system, and it can produce a certain level 
antibodies in the mice serum. The way of mice subcutaneously injected with the 
recombinant FomA protein can reduce the severity of periodontal infections 
caused by Fn and Pg.

Publisher: 目的： 检测具核梭杆菌（Fusobacterium 
nucleatum，Fn）的主要外膜孔道FomA蛋白的免疫原性、免疫水平以及对牙龈组织的免疫效果，为研究以FomA蛋白为靶点预防及治疗牙周感染的可行性提供理论依据。 
方法： 应用基因重组技术，使用大肠杆菌表达系统表达并获取纯化的FomA蛋白，将50 μg该蛋白或50 ml磷酸盐缓冲液（phosphate buffer 
solution，PBS）通过皮下注射方式免疫C57小鼠（随机数字法分组，每组各10只），在小鼠血清中检测FomA特异性抗体表达情况，比较组间差异，评估FomA蛋白的免疫原性。再将上述小鼠分成FomA 
Fn组、FomA Fn+牙龈卟啉单胞菌（Porphyromonas gingivalis，Pg）组、PBS Fn组、PBS 
Fn+Pg组，分别使用Fn菌悬液或Fn与Pg混合菌悬液制备牙周脓肿模型（PBS为相应FomA组的对照组），对小鼠牙龈脓肿评分，酶联免疫吸附测定法测定小鼠血清和牙龈组织中白介素（interleukin，IL）1β的浓度，比较上述指标的组间差异，评价FomA蛋白的免疫效果。 
结果： 通过基因重组技术成功获取1.0~1.5 g 
FomA蛋白，将该蛋白皮下注射免疫小鼠后，小鼠血清中均可检测到FomA特异性抗体，该抗体效价在二次免疫后2周达峰值。利用牙周致病菌Fn及Fn+Pg成功构建小鼠下颌牙龈脓肿模型，FomA 
Fn组小鼠牙龈脓肿评分[（1.82±0.35）分]显著低于PBS Fn组[（2.62±0.71）分]（P=0.049）；FomA 
Fn+Pg组小鼠牙龈脓肿评分[（2.31±0.55）分]亦显著低于PBS Fn+Pg组[（3.63±0.45）分]（P=0.003）；FomA 
Fn+Pg组与FomA Fn组小鼠血清及牙龈组织中IL-1β浓度均分别显著低于PBS对照组（P<0.001）。 结论： 
使用大肠杆菌表达系统能成功表达并获得一定量的Fn外膜FomA蛋白，该重组蛋白具有一定的免疫原性，通过对小鼠皮下注射的方式可使小鼠血清中产生一定水平的抗体，有助于机体降低牙周致病菌Fn及Pg引起的牙周感染程度。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1002-0098.2018.10.006
PMID: 30392224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Monoclon Antib Immunodiagn Immunother. 2017 Dec;36(6):251-258. doi: 
10.1089/mab.2017.0033.

Prokaryotic Expression of Hepatitis C Virus-NS3 Protein and Preparation of a 
Monoclonal Antibody.

Xi Y(1), Zhang Y(2), Fang J(2)(3)(4), Whittaker K(3), Luo S(2)(3)(4), Huang 
RP(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun 
Yat-sen University , Guangzhou, China .
(2)2 Raybiotech, Inc. , Guangzhou, China .
(3)3 RayBiotech, Inc. , Norcross, Georgia .
(4)4 South China Biochip Research Center , Guangzhou, China .

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a significant health threat that has been extensively 
investigated worldwide. Improving the sensitivity and specificity of laboratory 
tests for screening and early diagnosis of HCV in a relevant population is an 
effective measure to control the spread of HCV. To build a more reliable 
diagnostic method for HCV, we expressed gene fragments of HCV-NS3 linked to a 
carrier, pET28a, and then transformed this vector into Escherichia. coli. The 
produced recombinant NS3 protein with a molecular weight of 38 kDa, which was 
purified through Ni-chelating affinity chromatography, was used to immunize 
BALB/C mice, which generated a serum antibody titer of 1:160,000 against the 
immunogen. Three positive monoclonal isolates (2A5, 2A6, and 5B12) were screened 
and established. Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
results of these monoclonal cells show that each could specifically recognize 
the recombinant protein. Antibodies 2A5 and 2A6 were developed into an ELISA 
sandwich antibody pair for the recombinant protein. The detection sensitivity of 
our developed ELISA was 1.6 ng/mL, with a linear range of 2.5-80 ng/mL 
(R2 = 0.998). Serum NS3 ELISA results show that the average value in the healthy 
group, liver disease group, and hepatitis C group was 3.71, 7.28, and 
13.11 ng/mL, respectively. The positive rates of HCV-NS3 protein in the liver 
disease group and hepatitis C group was 17.2% and 41.7%, respectively. Detection 
of HCV-NS3 antigen can be used as an auxiliary test for anti-HCV antibody 
detection, thus reducing leakage detection and providing a reliable basis for 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1089/mab.2017.0033
PMID: 29267148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1509. J Agric Food Chem. 2008 Jun 11;56(11):4145-53. doi: 10.1021/jf072667b. Epub 2008 
May 8.

Characterization and crystallography of recombinant 7S globulins of Adzuki bean 
and structure-function relationships with 7S globulins of various crops.

Fukuda T(1), Maruyama N, Salleh MR, Mikami B, Utsumi S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Quality Design and Development, Graduate School of 
Agriculture, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.

The recombinant proteins Adzuki 7S1, Adzuki 7S2, and Adzuki 7S3 were prepared 
through the Escherichia coli expression systems of three kinds of adzuki bean 
cDNAs. The recombinant proteins exhibited intrinsic thermal stabilities, surface 
hydrophobicities, and solubilities, although the homology of their amino acid 
sequences ranged from 95-98%. To understand why these individual proteins 
exhibited different properties, their three-dimensional structures were 
elucidated. The three proteins were successfully crystallized, and the 
three-dimensional structures of Adzuki 7S1 and Adzuki 7S3 were determined. The 
properties and structures of these two proteins were comprehensively compared 
with those of recombinant 7S globulins (soybean beta-conglycinins beta and 
alpha'c and mungbean 8Salpha) reported previously. It was likely that cavity 
sizes, hydrogen bonds, salt bridges, hydrophobic interactions, and lengths of 
loops determine the thermal stabilities of 7S globulins, and results indicated 
that cavity sizes strongly contribute to such stability. Surface hydrophobicity 
was also found to be determined not only by distributions of hydrophobic 
residues on the molecular surface. Furthermore, solubility at neutral and weak 
alkaline pH values at mu = 0.08 was found to be dominantly influenced by the 
electrostatic surface potentials.

DOI: 10.1021/jf072667b
PMID: 18461964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. Bioresour Technol. 2012 Mar;107:333-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.12.055. Epub 
2011 Dec 21.

Cloning, expression and applicability of thermo-alkali-stable xylanase of 
Geobacillus thermoleovorans in generating xylooligosaccharides from 
agro-residues.

Verma D(1), Satyanarayana T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Delhi South Campus, New Delhi 110 
021, India.

A xylanase gene (xyl-gt) of 1.224 kbp was cloned from the extremely thermophilic 
bacterium Geobacillus thermoleovorans that encodes a protein containing 408 
amino acid residues. Eight conserved regions (signature sequences) of GH family 
10 xylanases have been found in the xylanase. When the xylanase gene was cloned 
and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), the recombinant strain produced 
xylanase titer of 270 U mg(-1) which is 27-fold higher than the wild strain. It 
is optimally active at 80°C and pH 8.5 with a high thermostability over broad 
range of pH (6-12) and temperature (40-100°C). The end products of the 
hydrolysis of birch wood xylan and agro-residues included xylobiose, xylotriose, 
xylotetraose and xylopentaose. The xylanase of G. thermoleovorans is one of the 
rare xylanases that exhibits thermo-alkali-stability, and thus, it is a suitable 
candidate for pre-bleaching of paper pulps and generating xylooligosaccharides 
from agro-residues for use as prebiotics.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.12.055
PMID: 22212694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2008 Jul;38(7):714-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2008.04.003. 
Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Juvenile hormone acid O-methyltransferase in Drosophila melanogaster.

Niwa R(1), Niimi T, Honda N, Yoshiyama M, Itoyama K, Kataoka H, Shinoda T.

Author information:
(1)Initiative for the Promotion of Young Scientists' Independent Research, 
Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan.

Juvenile hormone (JH) acid O-methyltransferase (JHAMT) is the enzyme that 
transfers a methyl group from S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) to the carboxyl 
group of JH acids to produce active JHs in the corpora allata. While the JHAMT 
gene was originally identified and characterized in the silkworm Bombyx mori, no 
orthologs from other insects have been studied until now. Here we report on the 
functional characterization of the CG17330/DmJHAMT gene in the fruit fly 
Drosophila melanogaster. Recombinant DmJHAMT protein expressed in Escherichia 
coli catalyzes the conversion of farnesoic acid and JH III acid to their cognate 
methyl esters in the presence of SAM. DmJHAMT is predominantly expressed in 
corpora allata, and its developmental expression profile correlates with changes 
in the JH titer. While a transgenic RNA interference against DmJHAMT has no 
visible effect, overexpression of DmJHAMT results in a pharate adult lethal 
phenotype, similar to that obtained with application of JH analogs, suggesting 
that the temporal regulation of DmJHAMT is critical for Drosophila development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2008.04.003
PMID: 18549957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1512. ACS Synth Biol. 2021 Sep 17;10(9):2331-2339. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00242. 
Epub 2021 Aug 27.

Construction and Characterization of a Gradient Strength Promoter Library for 
Fine-Tuned Gene Expression in Bacillus licheniformis.

Rao Y(1), Li P(1), Xie X(1), Li J(1), Liao Y(1), Ma X(1), Cai D(1), Chen 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, Environmental 
Microbial Technology Center of Hubei Province, College of Life Sciences, Hubei 
University, Wuhan, 430062, People's Republic of China.
(2)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Eco-Industrial Green Technology, College 
of Ecological and Resource Engineering, Wuyi University, Wuyishan 354300, 
People's Republic of China.

Bacillus licheniformis DW2 is an important industrial strain for bacitracin 
production, and it is also used for biochemical production, however, the lack of 
effective toolkit for precise regulation of gene expression hindered its 
application seriously. Here, a gradient strength promoter library was 
constructed based on bacitracin synthetase gene cluster promoter PbacA. First, 
different PbacA promoter variants were constructed via coupling PbacA with 
various 5'-UTRs, and expression ranges of 32.6-741.8% were attained among these 
promoters. Then, three promoters, PUbay (strong), PbacA (middle), and PUndh 
(weakest), were applied for red fluorescent protein (RFP) and keratinase 
expression assays, and these promoters were proven to have good universality for 
different proteins. Second, the promoter of bacitracin synthetase gene cluster 
was replaced by these three promoters, and bacitraicn titer was enhanced by 
14.62% when PUbay was applied, which was decreased by 98.05% under the mediation 
of PUndh compared with that of the original strain DW2. Third, promoters PUbay, 
PUyvgO, and PUndh were selected to regulate the expression levels of critical 
genes that are responsible for pucheriminic acid synthesis, and pucheriminic 
acid yield was increased by 194.1% via manipulating synthetic and competitive 
pathways. Finally, promoters PUbay, PbacA, and PUndh were applied for green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) and RFP expression in Escherichia coli, and consistent 
effects were attained based on our results. Taken together, a gradient strength 
promoter library was constructed in this research, which provided an effective 
toolkit for fine-tuning gene expression and reprogramming metabolite metabolic 
flux in B. licheniformis.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.1c00242
PMID: 34449215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. J Biosci Bioeng. 2011 May;111(5):600-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2010.12.018. Epub 
2011 Jan 23.

Growth and poliovirus production of Vero cells on a novel microcarrier with 
artificial cell adhesive protein under serum-free conditions.

Kurokawa M(1), Sato S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, School of Medicine, Iwate Medical University, 
Morioka, Iwate, Japan. m.kurokawa@sanyo-chemical.com

A microcarrier is used for the three-dimensional (3D) culture of 
adhesion-dependent mammalian cells. We developed a novel microcarrier by binding 
ProNectin F, an artificial cell adhesive protein synthesized by genetically 
engineered Escherichia coli to a polyacrylic superabsorbent polymer. The 
microcarrier is characterized by containing no animal-derived components. The 
serum-free culture of Vero cells for vaccine production using the microcarrier 
increased the number of Vero cells by approximately 30% compared with the 
existing dextran beads coated with porcine Type I collagen, which resulted in 
approximately a 30% to 40% increase in the infectivity titer of the Sabin 2 
strain of poliovirus. These results suggested that the developed microcarrier 
should be unprecedented in permitting high-yield vaccine production by means of 
a serum-free culture.

Copyright © 2010 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2010.12.018
PMID: 21262586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2004 Mar 20;85(6):638-46. doi: 10.1002/bit.10820.

Process strategies to enhance pyruvate production with recombinant Escherichia 
coli: from repetitive fed-batch to in situ product recovery with fully 
integrated electrodialysis.

Zelić B(1), Gostović S, Vuorilehto K, Vasić-Racki D, Takors R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology 2, Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, 52425 Jülich, 
Germany.

Using the pyruvate production strain Escherichia coli YYC202 ldhA::Kan different 
process alternatives are studied with the aim of preventing potential product 
inhibition by appropriate product separation. This strain is completely blocked 
in its ability to convert pyruvate into acetyl-CoA or acetate, resulting in 
acetate auxotrophy during growth in glucose minimal medium. Continuous 
experiments with cell retention, repetitive fed-batch, and an in situ product 
recovery (ISPR) process with fully integrated electrodialysis were tested. 
Although the continuous approach achieved a high volumetric productivity (QP) of 
110 g L(-1) d(-1), this approach was not pursued because of long-term production 
strain instabilities. The highest pyruvate/glucose molar yield of up to 1.78 mol 
mol(-1) together with high QP 145 g L(-1) d(-1) and high pyruvate titers was 
achieved by the repetitive fed-batch approach. To separate pyruvate from 
fermentation broth a fully integrated continuous process was developed. In this 
process electrodialysis was used as a separation unit. Under optimum conditions 
a (calculated) final pyruvate titer of >900 mmol L(-1) (79 g L(-1)) was 
achieved.

Copyright 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.10820
PMID: 14966805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Antioxidants (Basel). 2021 Nov 16;10(11):1817. doi: 10.3390/antiox10111817.

Improving Aqueous Solubility of Natural Antioxidant Mangiferin through 
Glycosylation by Maltogenic Amylase from Parageobacillus galactosidasius DSM 
18751.

Wu JY(1), Ding HY(2), Wang TY(3), Tsai YL(4), Ting HJ(4), Chang TS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, National Quemoy University, Kinmen County 892, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Cosmetic Science, Chia Nan University of Pharmacy and Science, 
No. 60 Erh-Jen Rd., Sec. 1, Jen-Te District, Tainan 71710, Taiwan.
(3)Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences and Technology, National University of 
Tainan, Tainan 70005, Taiwan.

Mangiferin is a natural antioxidant C-glucosidic xanthone originally isolated 
from the Mangifera indica (mango) plant. Mangiferin exhibits a wide range of 
pharmaceutical activities. However, mangiferin's poor solubility limits its 
applications. To resolve this limitation of mangiferin, enzymatic glycosylation 
of mangiferin to produce more soluble mangiferin glucosides was evaluated. 
Herein, the recombinant maltogenic amylase (MA; E.C. 3.2.1.133) from a 
thermophile Parageobacillus galactosidasius DSM 18751T (PgMA) was cloned into 
Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) via the expression plasmid pET-Duet-1. The 
recombinant PgMA was purified via Ni2+ affinity chromatography. To evaluate its 
transglycosylation activity, 17 molecules, including mangiferin (as sugar 
acceptors), belonging to triterpenoids, saponins, flavonoids, and polyphenol 
glycosides, were assayed with β-CD (as the sugar donor). The results showed that 
puerarin and mangiferin are suitable sugar acceptors in the transglycosylation 
reaction. The glycosylation products from mangiferin by PgMA were isolated using 
preparative high-performance liquid chromatography. Their chemical structures 
were glucosyl-α-(1→6)-mangiferin and maltosyl-α-(1→6)-mangiferin, determined by 
mass and nucleic magnetic resonance spectral analysis. The newly identified 
maltosyl-α-(1→6)-mangiferin showed 5500-fold higher aqueous solubility than that 
of mangiferin, and both mangiferin glucosides exhibited similar 
1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl free radical scavenging activities compared to 
mangiferin. PgMA is the first MA with glycosylation activity toward mangiferin, 
meaning mangiferin glucosides have potential future applications.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox10111817
PMCID: PMC8615176
PMID: 34829688

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1516. Bioinformatics. 2007 Oct 1;23(19):2536-42. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btl623. 
Epub 2006 Dec 6.

Protein solubility: sequence based prediction and experimental verification.

Smialowski P(1), Martin-Galiano AJ, Mikolajka A, Girschick T, Holak TA, Frishman 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genome Oriented Bioinformatics, Technische Universität München, 
Wissenschaftszentrum Weihenstephan, 85350 Freising, Germany.

MOTIVATION: Obtaining soluble proteins in sufficient concentrations is a 
recurring limiting factor in various experimental studies. Solubility is an 
individual trait of proteins which, under a given set of experimental 
conditions, is determined by their amino acid sequence. Accurate theoretical 
prediction of solubility from sequence is instrumental for setting priorities on 
targets in large-scale proteomics projects.
RESULTS: We present a machine-learning approach called PROSO to assess the 
chance of a protein to be soluble upon heterologous expression in Escherichia 
coli based on its amino acid composition. The classification algorithm is 
organized as a two-layered structure in which the output of primary support 
vector machine (SVM) classifiers serves as input for a secondary Naive Bayes 
classifier. Experimental progress information from the TargetDB database as well 
as previously published datasets were used as the source of training data. In 
comparison with previously published methods our classification algorithm 
possesses improved discriminatory capacity characterized by the Matthews 
Correlation Coefficient (MCC) of 0.434 between predicted and known solubility 
states and the overall prediction accuracy of 72% (75 and 68% for positive and 
negative class, respectively). We also provide experimental verification of our 
predictions using solubility measurements for 31 mutational variants of two 
different proteins.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btl623
PMID: 17150993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Food Technol Biotechnol. 2018 Mar;56(1):101-109. doi: 
10.17113/ftb.56.01.18.5445.

Correlation Between Protein Primary Structure and Soluble Expression Level of 
HSA dAb in Escherichia coli.

Yang Y(1)(2), Liu G(1)(2), Liu M(2), Bai Z(2)(3), Liu X(2)(3), Dai X(2)(3), Guo 
W(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Ministry of Education, 1800 Lihu Avenue, 
214122 Wuxi, PR China.
(2)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan 
University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, 214122 Wuxi, PR China.
(3)Jiangsu Provincial Research Center for Bioactive Product Processing 
Technology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, 214122 Wuxi, PR China.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, 214122 Wuxi, PR China.

It is widely accepted that features such as pI, length, molecular mass and amino 
acid (AA) sequence have a significant influence on protein solubility. Here, we 
mainly focused on AA composition and explored those that most affected the 
soluble expression level of human serum albumin (HSA) domain antibody (dAb). The 
soluble expression and sequence of 65 dAb variants were analysed using 
clustering and linear modelling. Certain AAs significantly affected the soluble 
expression level of dAb, with the specific AA combinations being (S, R, N, D, 
Q), (G, R, C, N, S) and (R, S, G); these combinations respectively affected the 
dAb expression level in the broth supernatant, the level in the pellet lysate 
and total soluble dAb. Among the 20 AAs, R displayed a negative influence on the 
soluble expression level, whereas G and S showed positive effects. A linear 
model was built to predict the soluble expression level from the sequence; this 
model had a prediction accuracy of 80%. In summary, increasing the content of 
polar AAs, especially G and S, and decreasing the content of R, was helpful to 
improve the soluble expression level of HSA dAb.

DOI: 10.17113/ftb.56.01.18.5445
PMCID: PMC5956261
PMID: 29796003


1518. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Apr;40(2):256-67. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.12.022.

Protocols for production of selenomethionine-labeled proteins in 2-L 
polyethylene terephthalate bottles using auto-induction medium.

Sreenath HK(1), Bingman CA, Buchan BW, Seder KD, Burns BT, Geetha HV, Jeon WB, 
Vojtik FC, Aceti DJ, Frederick RO, Phillips GN Jr, Fox BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center for Eukaryotic Structural Genomics, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, 433 Babcock Drive, Madison, WI 53706-1549, USA. 
sreenath@biochem.wisc.edu

Protocols have been developed and applied in the high-throughput production of 
selenomethionine labeled fusion proteins using the conditional Met auxotroph 
Escherichia coli B834. The large-scale growth and expression uses a chemically 
defined auto-induction medium containing 125 mg L(-1) selenomethionine, salts 
and trace metals, other amino acids including 10 mg L(-1) of methionine, 
vitamins except vitamin B12, and glucose, glycerol, and alpha-lactose. A 
schematic for a shaker rack that can hold up to twenty-four 2-L polyethylene 
terephthalate beverage bottles in a standard laboratory refrigerated floor 
shaker is provided. The growth cycle from inoculation of the culture bottle 
through the growth, induction, and expression was timed to take approximately 24 
h. Culture growth in the auto-induction medium gave an average final optical 
density at 600 nm of approximately 6 and an average wet cell mass yield of 
approximately 14 g from 2 L of culture in greater than 150 expression trials. A 
simple method for visual scoring of denaturing electrophoresis gels for total 
protein expression, solubility, and effectiveness of fusion protein proteolysis 
was developed and applied. For the favorably scored expression trials, the 
average yield of purified, selenomethionine-labeled target protein obtained 
after proteolysis of the fusion protein was approximately 30 mg. Analysis by 
mass spectrometry showed greater than 90% incorporation of selenomethionine over 
a approximately 8-fold range of selenomethionine concentrations in the growth 
medium, with higher growth rates observed at the lower selenomethionine 
concentrations. These protein preparations have been utilized to solve X-ray 
crystal structures by multiwavelength anomalous diffraction phasing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.12.022
PMID: 15766867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. Vaccine. 2007 Jun 28;25(27):5102-14. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2006.09.071. Epub 
2006 Oct 9.

Immunogenicity of recombinant human immunodeficiency virus type 1-like particles 
expressing gp41 derivatives in a pre-fusion state.

Kim M(1), Qiao Z, Yu J, Montefiori D, Reinherz EL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunobiology, Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute and Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02115, United States.

The conserved membrane proximal external region (MPER) of the ectodomain of 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) gp41 is the target of two broadly 
neutralizing antibodies, 2F5 and 4E10. However, no neutralizing antibodies have 
been elicited against immunogens bearing these epitopes. Given that structural 
and biochemical studies suggest that the lipid membrane of the virion is 
involved in their proper configuration, HIV-1 gp41 derivatives in a pre-fusion 
state were expressed on the surface of immature virus like particles (VLP) 
derived from Sf9 cells. Guinea pigs were immunized with three doses of VLPs or 
Sf9 cells presenting gp41 derivatives with or without E. coli heat-labile 
enterotoxin (LT) as an adjuvant. While immune sera contained high titer anti-VLP 
antibodies, the specific anti-gp41 antibody responses were low with no 
neutralizing antibodies detected. An explanation for this absence may be the low 
level of gp41 expression relative to the many other proteins derived from host 
cells which are incorporated onto the VLP surface. In addition, the anti-gp41 
immune response was preferentially directed to the C-helical domain, away from 
the MPER. Future vaccine design needs to contend with the complexity of epitope 
display as well as immunodominance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2006.09.071
PMCID: PMC2705924
PMID: 17055621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. Infect Immun. 2005 Apr;73(4):2109-15. doi: 10.1128/IAI.73.4.2109-2115.2005.

Process development and analysis of liver-stage antigen 1, a 
preerythrocyte-stage protein-based vaccine for Plasmodium falciparum.

Hillier CJ(1), Ware LA, Barbosa A, Angov E, Lyon JA, Heppner DG, Lanar DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 503 Robert 
Grant Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20910-7500, USA.

Plasmodium falciparum liver-stage antigen 1 (LSA-1) is expressed solely in 
infected hepatocytes and is thought to have a role in liver schizogony and 
merozoite release. Specific humoral, cellular, and cytokine immune responses to 
LSA-1 are well documented, with epitopes identified that correlate with antibody 
production, proliferative T-cell responses, or cytokine induction. With the goal 
of developing a vaccine against this preerythrocyte-stage protein, we undertook 
the good manufacturing practices (GMP) manufacture of a recombinant LSA-1 
construct, LSA-NRC, incorporating the N- and C-terminal regions of the protein 
and two of the centrally placed 17-amino-acid repeats. To improve the protein 
yield, a method of codon harmonization was employed to reengineer the gene 
sequence for expression in Escherichia coli. A 300-liter GMP fermentation 
produced 8 kg of bacterial cell paste, and a three-step column chromatographic 
method yielded 8 mg of purified antigen per g of paste. The final bulk protein 
was >98% pure, demonstrated long-term stability, and contained <0.005 endotoxin 
units per 50 microg of protein. To accomplish the initial stages of evaluation 
of this protein as a human-use vaccine against malaria, we immunized rabbits and 
mice with LSA-NRC in Montanide ISA 720. New Zealand White rabbits and A/J (H-2K) 
mice produced high-titer antibodies that recognized liver-stage parasites in 
infected cultured human hepatocytes. Gamma interferon-producing cells, which 
have been associated with LSA-1-mediated protection, were detected in 
splenocytes harvested from immunized mice. Finally, sera taken from people 
living in a region where malaria is holoendemic recognized LSA-NRC by Western 
blotting.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.73.4.2109-2115.2005
PMCID: PMC1087442
PMID: 15784552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2002 Aug 7;123(1):35-45. doi: 
10.1016/s0166-6851(02)00123-8.

Identification, expression, and functional characterization of MAEBL, a 
sporozoite and asexual blood stage chimeric erythrocyte-binding protein of 
Plasmodium falciparum.

Ghai M(1), Dutta S, Hall T, Freilich D, Ockenhouse CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver 
Spring, MD 20910, USA.

MAEBL is a chimeric erythrocyte binding protein reported in rodent malaria 
parasites Plasmodium yoelii and Plasmodium berghei, that has the gene structure 
similar to erythrocyte binding proteins, but N-terminal homology to subdomains I 
and II of Apical membrane antigen-1. We report here the sequence analysis and 
gene structure of the Plasmodium falciparum maebl gene. We have cloned and 
expressed a putative red cell binding domain, M2, of this gene in Escherichia 
coli, purified the recombinant protein (r-PfM2) and studied its in vitro binding 
specificity to human red cells. Binding of r-PfM2 protein to red cells was 
abolished by pretreatment with papain, while increased binding was observed to 
neuraminidase-treated red cells. Polyclonal antibodies to r-PfM2 recognized 
native MAEBL protein in blood stage schizont extracts of the parasite on Western 
blots and within the apical complex of free merozoites, by indirect 
immunofluorescent assay (IFA). MAEBL expression in P. falciparum sporozoites was 
also detected by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and 
IFA. High titer antibodies to r-PfM2 were observed in human sera obtained from a 
malaria endemic region some of which inhibited r-PfM2 binding to red cells. 
Individuals immunized with irradiated sporozoites tested positive for anti-MAEBL 
antibodies by ELISA. The dual stage expression of MAEBL makes it an excellent 
pre-erythrocytic and erythrocytic stage vaccine target antigen.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-6851(02)00123-8
PMID: 12165387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Jun;79(4):563-9. doi: 10.1007/s00253-008-1464-8. 
Epub 2008 Apr 22.

Efficient production of active form of recombinant cassava hydroxynitrile lyase 
using Escherichia coli in low-temperature culture.

Semba H(1), Ichige E, Imanaka T, Atomi H, Aoyagi H.

Author information:
(1)Strategic Technology Research Center, Nippon Shokubai Co Ltd, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, Japan. hisashi_semba@shokubai.co.jp

Erratum in
    Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Sep;80(4):747-8.

Overexpression and production of the high concentration of hydroxynitrile lyase 
from cassava (Manihot esculenta (MeHNL, EC 4.1.2.39)) were investigated. 
Hydroxynitrile lyase is a useful enzyme for the production of optically active 
cyanohydrin compounds. The production of MeHNL was increased by changing the 
rare codons of the original sequence of cassava MeHNL. However, most of the 
produced MeHNL was in the insoluble form. In order to increase the solubility of 
MeHNL, the effects of the cultivation temperature were investigated. When the 
cultivation temperature was reduced, the cell yield and the ratio of soluble 
MeHNL increased significantly. The enzyme activity and yield at low-temperature 
cultures (17 degrees C) were 850 times higher than those obtained at the optimum 
growth temperature of 37 degrees C. The rate of MeHNL production in the present 
study was calculated as 3,000 unit/h. Low-temperature cultivation was very 
effective in improving the productivity of the active form of MeHNL. Unlike the 
temperature-shift method, low-temperature cultivation has more potential for the 
large-scale production of MeHNL for the optically active cyanohydrin production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-008-1464-8
PMID: 18427803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Aug 14;14(3):9469-77. doi: 10.4238/2015.August.14.10.

Efficient construction of recombinant adenovirus expression vector of the 
Qinchuan cattle LYRM1 gene.

Li YK(1), Fu CZ(1), Zhang YR(1), Zan LS(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi, China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi, China zanlinsen@163.com.

In this study, we cloned the coding DNA sequence (CDS) region of Qinchuan cattle 
LYR motif-containing 1 (LYRM1) and constructed a recombinant adenovirus 
expression vector to examine the function of LYRM1 on the cellular level. Total 
RNA was extracted from the adipose tissue of Qinchuan cattle, cDNA was obtained 
by reverse transcription, and polymerase chain reaction was used to amplify the 
CDS region of the LYRM1 gene. The CDS-containing fragment was inserted into the 
shuttle vector pAdTrack-CMV to construct pAdTrack-CMV-LYRM1 vector. After 
linearization of pAdTrack-CMV-LYRM1 and the negative control vector pAdTrack-CMV 
by restriction endonuclease PmeI, the vectors were transformed into Escherichia 
coli BJ5183 containing pAdEasy-1 to obtain the recombinant adenovirus vector 
pAd-LYRM1 and pAd-CMV through homologous recombination. pAd-LYRM1 and pAd-CMV 
were then digested by PacI and transfected into the 293A cell line. The 
recombinant adenovirus Ad-LYRM1 and Ad-CMV was obtained at a concentration of 7 
x 108 and 1.3 x 109 green fluorescent units/mL, respectively. Preadipocytes 
derived from Qinchuan cattle were separately infected with Ad-LYRM1 and Ad- CMV. 
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that the 
expression of LYRM1 was increased by approximate 28,000-folds after the 
infection with recombinant adenovirus for 48 h. In conclusion, we successfully 
cloned the CDS region of the Qinchuan cattle LYRM1 gene, constructed the 
recombinant adenovirus expression vector, and obtained the adenovirus with high 
titer, providing valuable materials for studying the function of LYRM1 at the 
cellular level.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.August.14.10
PMID: 26345880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1524. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Apr;46(2):379-89. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.10.029. Epub 
2005 Nov 22.

Expression, purification, and characterization of the 4 zinc finger region of 
human tumor suppressor WT1.

Nurmemmedov E(1), Thunnissen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics, Lund University, Chemical Center, Box 
124, SE 221 00, Lund, Sweden. Elmar.Nurmemmedov@mbfys.lu.se

Wilm's Tumor gene 1 (WT1) encodes a zinc finger protein with four distinct 
splice isoforms. WT1 has a critical role in genesis of various cancer types both 
at the DNA/RNA and the protein level. The zinc-finger DNA-binding capacity of 
the protein is located in the C-terminal domain. Two recombinant proteins, 
6HIS-ZN-wt1 and 6HIS-ZN+wt1, corresponding to two alternative splice variants of 
the C-terminal regions of human WT1 (-KTS) and WT1 (+KTS), respectively, were 
over-expressed with hexa-histidine fusion tags in inclusion bodies in 
Escherichia coli for crystallization studies. A combination of Ni2+-NTA affinity 
and size-exclusion chromatography was applied for purification of the proteins 
in denaturing conditions. The effects of various buffers, salts and other 
additives were scrutinized in a systematic screening to establish the optimal 
conditions for solubility and refolding of the recombinant WT1 proteins. 
Circular dichroism analysis revealed the expected betabetaalpha content for the 
refolded proteins, with a notable degradation of the alpha-helical segment in 
the DNA-free state. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay with double-stranded 
DNA containing the double Egr1 consensus site 5'-GCG-TGG-GCG-3' confirmed that 
6HIS-ZN-wt1 has higher DNA binding affinity than 6HIS-ZN+wt1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.10.029
PMID: 16343939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1525. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2014 Dec;80(23):7415-22. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01795-14. Epub 
2014 Sep 19.

Holotoxin Activity of Botulinum Neurotoxin Subtype A4 Originating from a 
Nontoxigenic Clostridium botulinum Expression System.

Bradshaw M(1), Tepp WH(1), Whitemarsh RC(1), Pellett S(1), Johnson EA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA eajohnso@wisc.edu.

Comment in
    Appl Environ Microbiol. 2014 Dec;80(23):7131-2.

Clostridium botulinum subtype A4 neurotoxin (BoNT/A4) is naturally expressed in 
the dual-toxin-producing C. botulinum strain 657Ba at 100× lower titers than 
BoNT/B. In this study, we describe purification of recombinant BoNT/A4 
(rBoNT/A4) expressed in a nonsporulating and nontoxigenic C. botulinum 
expression host strain. The rBoNT/A4 copurified with nontoxic toxin complex 
components provided in trans by the expression host and was proteolytically 
cleaved to the active dichain form. Activity of the recombinant BoNT/A4 in mice 
and in human neuronal cells was about 1,000-fold lower than that of BoNT/A1, and 
the recombinant BoNT/A4 was effectively neutralized by botulism heptavalent 
antitoxin. A previous report using recombinant truncated BoNT/A4 light chain 
(LC) expressed in Escherichia coli has indicated reduced stability and activity 
of BoNT/A4 LC compared to BoNT/A1 LC, which was surmounted by introduction of a 
single-amino-acid substitution, I264R. In order to determine whether this 
mutation would also affect the holotoxin activity of BoNT/A4, a recombinant 
full-length BoNT/A4 carrying this mutation as well as a second mutation 
predicted to increase solubility (L260F) was produced in the clostridial 
expression system. Comparative analyses of the in vitro, cellular, and in vivo 
activities of rBoNT/A4 and rBoNT/A4-L260F I264R showed 1,000-fold-lower activity 
than BoNT/A1 in both the mutated and nonmutated BoNT/A4. This indicates that 
these mutations do not alter the activity of BoNT/A4 holotoxin. In summary, a 
recombinant BoNT from a dual-toxin-producing strain was expressed and purified 
in an endogenous clostridial expression system, allowing analysis of this toxin.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01795-14
PMCID: PMC4249187
PMID: 25239905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Microb Cell Fact. 2018 Jul 3;17(1):102. doi: 10.1186/s12934-018-0949-0.

Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for the synthesis of 
polyhydroxyalkanoates using acetate as a main carbon source.

Chen J(1)(2), Li W(1)(2), Zhang ZZ(2), Tan TW(2), Li ZJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Soft Matter Science and Engineering, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Mailbox 53, No. 15 Beisanhuan Donglu, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing, 100029, China.
(3)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Soft Matter Science and Engineering, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Mailbox 53, No. 15 Beisanhuan Donglu, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, China. lizj@mail.buct.edu.cn.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioprocess, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing, 100029, China. 
lizj@mail.buct.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: High production cost of bioplastics polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA) is a 
major obstacle to replace traditional petro-based plastics. To address the 
challenges, strategies towards upstream metabolic engineering and downstream 
fermentation optimizations have been continuously pursued. Given that the 
feedstocks especially carbon sources account up to a large portion of the 
production cost, it is of great importance to explore low cost substrates to 
manufacture PHA economically.
RESULTS: Escherichia coli was metabolically engineered to synthesize 
poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (P3HB), poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate) 
(P3HB4HB), and poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV) using acetate 
as a main carbon source. Overexpression of phosphotransacetylase/acetate kinase 
pathway was shown to be an effective strategy for improving acetate assimilation 
and biopolymer production. The recombinant strain overexpressing 
phosphotransacetylase/acetate kinase and P3HB synthesis operon produced 1.27 g/L 
P3HB when grown on minimal medium supplemented with 10 g/L yeast extract and 
5 g/L acetate in shake flask cultures. Further introduction succinate 
semialdehyde dehydrogenase, 4-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, and CoA transferase 
lead to the accumulation of P3HB4HB, reaching a titer of 1.71 g/L with a 
4-hydroxybutyrate monomer content of 5.79 mol%. When 1 g/L of α-ketoglutarate or 
citrate was added to the medium, P3HB4HB titer increased to 1.99 and 2.15 g/L, 
respectively. To achieve PHBV synthesis, acetate and propionate were 
simultaneously supplied and propionyl-CoA transferase was overexpressed to 
provide 3-hydroxyvalerate precursor. The resulting strain produced 0.33 g/L PHBV 
with a 3-hydroxyvalerate monomer content of 6.58 mol%. Further overexpression of 
propionate permease improved PHBV titer and 3-hydroxyvalerate monomer content to 
1.09 g/L and 10.37 mol%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The application of acetate as carbon source for microbial 
fermentation could reduce the consumption of food and agro-based renewable 
bioresources for biorefineries. Our proposed metabolic engineering strategies 
illustrate the feasibility for producing polyhydroxyalkanoates using acetate as 
a main carbon source. Overall, as an abundant and renewable resource, acetate 
would be developed into a cost-effective feedstock to achieve low cost 
production of chemicals, materials, and biofuels.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-018-0949-0
PMCID: PMC6029019
PMID: 29970091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. Sci Rep. 2015 Aug 26;5:13435. doi: 10.1038/srep13435.

Engineering catechol 1, 2-dioxygenase by design for improving the performance of 
the cis, cis-muconic acid synthetic pathway in Escherichia coli.

Han L(1), Liu P(2), Sun J(2), Wu Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Chen W(1), Lin J(1)(2), Wang 
Q(1), Ma Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology and College of Pharmacy, 
Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China.

Regulating and ameliorating enzyme expression and activity greatly affects the 
performance of a given synthetic pathway. In this study, a new synthetic pathway 
for cis, cis-muconic acid (ccMA) production was reconstructed without exogenous 
induction by regulating the constitutive expression of the important enzyme 
catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (CatA). Next, new CatAs with significantly improved 
activities were developed to enhance ccMA production using structure-assisted 
protein design. Nine mutations were designed, simulated and constructed based on 
the analysis of the CatA crystal structure. These results showed that mutations 
at Gly72, Leu73 and/or Pro76 in CatA could improve enzyme activity, and the 
activity of the most effective mutant was 10-fold greater than that of the 
wild-type CatA from Acinetobacter sp. ADP1. The most productive synthetic 
pathway with a mutated CatA increased the titer of ccMA by more than 25%. 
Molecular dynamic simulation results showed that enlarging the entrance of the 
substrate-binding pocket in the mutants contributed to their increased enzyme 
activities and thus improved the performance of the synthetic pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/srep13435
PMCID: PMC4549619
PMID: 26306712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2002 Apr 26;293(1):537-41. doi: 
10.1016/S0006-291X(02)00226-7.

Silent mutations affect in vivo protein folding in Escherichia coli.

Cortazzo P(1), Cerveñansky C, Marín M, Reiss C, Ehrlich R, Deana A.

Author information:
(1)Sección Bioquímica, Facultad de Ciencias, Iguá 4225, Montevideo 11400, 
Uruguay. cortazzo@fcien.edu.uy

As an approach to investigate the molecular mechanism of in vivo protein folding 
and the role of translation kinetics on specific folding pathways, we made codon 
substitutions in the EgFABP1 (Echinococcus granulosus fatty acid binding 
protein1) gene that replaced five minor codons with their synonymous major ones. 
The altered region corresponds to a turn between two short alpha helices. One of 
the silent mutations of EgFABP1 markedly decreased the solubility of the protein 
when expressed in Escherichia coli. Expression of this protein also caused 
strong activation of a reporter gene designed to detect misfolded proteins, 
suggesting that the turn region seems to have special translation kinetic 
requirements that ensure proper folding of the protein. Our results highlight 
the importance of codon usage in the in vivo protein folding.

DOI: 10.1016/S0006-291X(02)00226-7
PMID: 12054634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2009 Aug;75(16):5356-62. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00691-09. Epub 
2009 Jun 19.

Significant enhanced expression and solubility of human proteins in Escherichia 
coli by fusion with protein S from Myxococcus xanthus.

Kobayashi H(1), Yoshida T, Inouye M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, 
NJ 08854, USA.

Protein S is a major spore coat protein of Myxococcus xanthus, consisting of two 
homologous domains, the N-terminal domain (NTD) and the C-terminal domain, both 
of which contain a Ca(2+)-binding site. Protein S tightly binds to myxospores in 
a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Here, we constructed a novel expression vector, 
pCold-PST, encoding two tandem repeat NTDs (PrS2). By using this vector, a 
number of human proteins that were expressed at low levels or in insoluble forms 
by a pET vector were expressed not only at high levels but also in soluble 
forms. We also demonstrated that an Escherichia coli protein tagged with PrS2 
fully retained its function, indicating that it is folded independently from the 
tag. This technology not only allows simple, one-step protein purification using 
myxospores, but can also be used for the identification of proteins interacting 
with a protein of interest and will prove immensely useful for structural 
studies of proteins which are difficult to produce or are insoluble.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00691-09
PMCID: PMC2725456
PMID: 19542330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2000 Jul 1;379(1):137-46. doi: 10.1006/abbi.2000.1865.

Heterologous expression and characterization of a "Pseudomature" form of 
taxadiene synthase involved in paclitaxel (Taxol) biosynthesis and evaluation of 
a potential intermediate and inhibitors of the multistep diterpene cyclization 
reaction.

Williams DC(1), Wildung MR, Jin AQ, Dalal D, Oliver JS, Coates RM, Croteau R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Chemistry, Washington State University, Pullman, 
Washington, 99164-6340, USA.

The diterpene cyclase taxadiene synthase from yew (Taxus) species transforms 
geranylgeranyl diphosphate to taxa-4(5),11(12)-diene as the first committed step 
in the biosynthesis of the anti-cancer drug Taxol. Taxadiene synthase is 
translated as a preprotein bearing an N-terminal targeting sequence for 
localization to and processing in the plastids. Overexpression of the 
full-length preprotein in Escherichia coli and purification are compromised by 
host codon usage, inclusion body formation, and association with host 
chaperones, and the preprotein is catalytically impaired. Since the transit 
peptide-mature enzyme cleavage site could not be determined directly, a series 
of N-terminally truncated enzymes was created by expression of the corresponding 
cDNAs from a suitable vector, and each was purified and kinetically evaluated. 
Deletion of up to 79 residues yielded functional protein; however, deletion of 
93 or more amino acids resulted in complete elimination of activity, implying a 
structural or catalytic role for the amino terminus. The pseudomature form of 
taxadiene synthase having 60 amino acids deleted from the preprotein was found 
to be superior with respect to level of expression, ease of purification, 
solubility, stability, and catalytic activity with kinetics comparable to the 
native enzyme. In addition to the major product, taxa-4(5),11(12)-diene (94%), 
this enzyme produces a small amount of the isomeric taxa-4(20), 11(12)-diene ( 
approximately 5%), and a product tentatively identified as verticillene ( 
approximately 1%). Isotopically sensitive branching experiments utilizing 
(4R)-[4-(2)H(1)]geranylgeranyl diphosphate confirmed that the two taxadiene 
isomers, and a third (taxa-3(4),11(12)-diene), are derived from the same 
intermediate taxenyl C4-carbocation. These results, along with the failure of 
the enzyme to utilize 2, 7-cyclogeranylgeranyl diphosphate as an alternate 
substrate, indicate that the reaction proceeds by initial ionization of the 
diphosphate ester and macrocyclization to the verticillyl intermediate, followed 
by a secondary cyclization to the taxenyl cation and deprotonation (i.e., 
formation of the A-ring prior to B/C-ring closure). Two potential 
mechanism-based inhibitors were tested with recombinant taxadiene synthase but 
neither provided time-dependent inactivation nor afforded more than modest 
competitive inhibition.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abbi.2000.1865
PMID: 10864451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1531. Bioinformatics. 2014 Oct 15;30(20):2975-7. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu420. 
Epub 2014 Jul 1.

ccSOL omics: a webserver for solubility prediction of endogenous and 
heterologous expression in Escherichia coli.

Agostini F(1), Cirillo D(1), Livi CM(1), Delli Ponti R(1), Tartaglia GG(1).

Author information:
(1)Gene Function and Evolution, Bioinformatics and Genomics, Centre for Genomic 
Regulation (CRG), 08003 Barcelona, Spain and Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), 
08003 Barcelona, Spain Gene Function and Evolution, Bioinformatics and Genomics, 
Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), 08003 Barcelona, Spain and Universitat 
Pompeu Fabra (UPF), 08003 Barcelona, Spain.

SUMMARY: Here we introduce ccSOL omics, a webserver for large-scale calculations 
of protein solubility. Our method allows (i) proteome-wide predictions; (ii) 
identification of soluble fragments within each sequences; (iii) exhaustive 
single-point mutation analysis.
RESULTS: Using coil/disorder, hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, β-sheet and 
α-helix propensities, we built a predictor of protein solubility. Our approach 
shows an accuracy of 79% on the training set (36 990 Target Track entries). 
Validation on three independent sets indicates that ccSOL omics discriminates 
soluble and insoluble proteins with an accuracy of 74% on 31 760 proteins 
sharing <30% sequence similarity.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: ccSOL omics can be freely accessed on the web 
at http://s.tartaglialab.com/page/ccsol_group. Documentation and tutorial are 
available at 
http://s.tartaglialab.com/static_files/shared/tutorial_ccsol_omics.html.
CONTACT: gian.tartaglia@crg.es
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu420
PMCID: PMC4184263
PMID: 24990610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2021 Mar 8;73(4):460-472. doi: 10.1093/jpp/rgaa068.

Anti-Aβ-scFv-loaded polymeric nano-micelles with enhanced plasma stability.

Sotoudegan F(1), Sotoudegan F(2), Talebkhan Garoosi Y(1), Afshar SH(3), 
Barkhordari F(1), Davami F(1).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance Research Center, The Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences (TIPS), Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy International Campus, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Immunotherapy using recombinant monoclonal antibodies specifically 
Anti-amyloid-beta (Anti-Aβ) scFv is envisaged as an appropriate therapeutic for 
Alzheimer through reduction of amyloid-beta aggregation. The solubilization of 
therapeutics using polymeric micelles facilitates an improved bioavailability 
and extended blood half-life. In this study, the optimum production condition 
for Anti-amyloid-beta (Anti-Aβ) scFv was obtained. To increase the stability of 
plasma, Anti-Aβ-loaded polymeric micelles were synthesized.
METHODS: Escherichia coli SHuffle expression strain was used and purified by 
Ni-NTA. Pluronics P85 and F127 micelles were used for the Anti-Aβ delivery and 
were characterized in terms of morphology, drug loading and drug release in 
phosphate buffer and artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The stability profile was 
quantified at 4°C over a 30 days storage period. The stability in human plasma 
was also evaluated.
KEY FINDINGS: Proteins expressed in SHuffle resulted in increased levels of 
protein expression and solubility. Low critical micelle concentration value and 
high micelle encapsulation efficiency (<200 nm) achieved via direct dissolution 
method. Anti-Aβ-loaded micelles were around 2.2-fold more stable than Anti-Aβ in 
plasma solution. A sustained in-vitro release of Anti-Aβ from micelles was 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Results confirmed that Pluronic-micelles pose benefits as a 
nano-carrier to increase the stability of Anti-Aβ scFvin in the plasma.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Royal Pharmaceutical Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jpp/rgaa068
PMID: 33793837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Vaccine. 2014 Jul 31;32(35):4420-4427. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.06.060. Epub 
2014 Jun 21.

Inclusion of a universal tetanus toxoid CD4(+) T cell epitope P2 significantly 
enhanced the immunogenicity of recombinant rotavirus ΔVP8* subunit parenteral 
vaccines.

Wen X(1), Wen K(2), Cao D(3), Li G(2), Jones RW(1), Li J(4), Szu S(4), Hoshino 
Y(5), Yuan L(6).

Author information:
(1)Rotavirus Vaccine Development Section, Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Pathobiology, Virginia-Maryland 
Regional College of Veterinary Medicine, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
State University, 1981 Kraft Drive, Integrated Life Science Building, 
Blacksburg, VA 24061, United States.
(3)Rotavirus Vaccine Development Section, Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD, United States; Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Pathobiology, Virginia-Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 1981 Kraft Drive, 
Integrated Life Science Building, Blacksburg, VA 24061, United States.
(4)Laboratory of Developmental and Molecular Immunity, National Institute of 
Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
United States.
(5)Rotavirus Vaccine Development Section, Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD, United States. Electronic address: thoshino@niaid.nih.gov.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Pathobiology, Virginia-Maryland 
Regional College of Veterinary Medicine, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
State University, 1981 Kraft Drive, Integrated Life Science Building, 
Blacksburg, VA 24061, United States. Electronic address: lyuan@vt.edu.

Currently available live oral rotavirus vaccines, Rotarix(®) and RotaTeq(®), are 
highly efficacious in developed countries. However, the immunogenicity and 
efficacy of such vaccines in some developing countries are low. We reported 
previously that bacterially-expressed rotavirus ΔVP8* subunit vaccine candidates 
with P[8], P[4] or P[6] specificity elicited high-titer virus neutralizing 
antibodies in animals immunized intramuscularly. Of note was the finding that 
antibodies induced with the P[8]ΔVP8* vaccine neutralized both homotypic P[8] 
and heterotypic P[4] rotavirus strains to high titer. To further improve its 
vaccine potential, a tetanus toxoid universal CD4(+) T cell epitope P2 was 
introduced into P[8] or P[6]ΔVP8* construct. The resulting recombinant fusion 
proteins expressed in Escherichia coli were of high solubility and were produced 
with high yield. Two doses (10 or 20 μg/dose) of the P2-P[8]ΔVP8* vaccine or 
P2-P[6]ΔVP8* vaccine with aluminum phosphate adjuvant elicited significantly 
higher geometric mean homologous neutralizing antibody titers than the vaccines 
without P2 in intramuscularly immunized guinea pigs. Interestingly, high levels 
of neutralizing antibody responses induced in guinea pigs with 3 doses of the 
P2-P[8]ΔVP8* vaccine persisted for at least 6 months. Furthermore, in the 
gnotobiotic piglet challenge study, three intramuscular doses (50 μg/dose) of 
the P2-P[8]ΔVP8* vaccine with aluminum phosphate adjuvant significantly delayed 
the onset of diarrhea and significantly reduced the duration of diarrhea and the 
cumulative diarrhea score after oral challenge with virulent human rotavirus Wa 
(G1P[8]) strain. The P2-P[8]ΔVP8* vaccine induced serum virus neutralizing 
antibody and VP4-specific IgG antibody production prechallenge, and primed the 
pigs for higher antibody and intestinal and systemic virus-specific IFN-γ 
producing CD4(+) T cell responses postchallenge. These two subunit vaccines 
could be used at a minimum singly or preferably in bivalent formulation to 
provide antigenic coverage of most of the G types of global importance.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.06.060
PMCID: PMC4104241
PMID: 24962749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2011 Jan;27(1):31-40.

[Elimination of succinate and acetate synthesis in recombinant Escherichia coli 
for D-lactate production].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou L(1), Tian K, Zuo Z, Chen X, Shi G, Singh S, Wang Z.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology of Ministry of Education, 
Center of Bioresource & Bioenergy, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi 214122, China.

When Escherichia coli CICIM B0013-030 (B0013, ack-pta, pps, pflB) was used for 
D-lactate production, succinate and acetate were the main byproducts (as much as 
11.9 and 7.1% the amount of lactate respectively). In order to decrease the 
byproduct levels, we inactivated succinate and acetate synthesis in B0013-030. 
Two recombinant plasmids containing mutation cassettes of frdA::difGm and 
tdcDE::difGm respectively were constructed first. The mutation cassettes were 
used to delete the target genes on the chromosomal by Red recombination. 
Subsequently, the antibiotic resistance gene was excised from the chromosomal by 
Xer recombination. Thereby, mutants B0013-040B (B0013-030, frdA) and B0013-050B 
(B0013-040B, tdcDE) were produced. D-lactate producing abilities of the 
engineered strains were tested both in shake flasks and in bioreactors using 
two-phase fermentation (aerobic growth and anaerobic fermentation) with glucose 
as the sole carbon source. When fermentation was carried out in shake flasks, 
inactivation of frdA in B0013-030 to produce B0013-040B reduced succinate 
accumulation by 80.8%. When tested in a 7-liter bioreactor, B0013-040B 
accumulated 114.5 g/L D-lactate of over 99.9% optical purity. However, 1.0 g/L 
succinate and 5.4 g/L acetate still remained in the broth. Further inactivation 
of tdcD and tdcE genes in B0013-040B to produce B0013-050B decreased acetate and 
succinate accumulation to 0.4 g/L and 0.4 g/L respectively, and lactate titer 
was as much as 111.9 g/L (tested in the 7-liter bioreactor). In lightof the 
lower byproduct levels and high lactate production, strain B00 13-050B may prove 
useful for D-lactate production.

PMID: 21553488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1535. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Oct;174:105676. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105676. Epub 
2020 May 20.

High cell-density fermentation, expression and purification of bacteriophage 
lysin TSPphg, a thermostable antimicrobial protein from extremophilic Thermus 
bacteriophage TSP4.

Wang F(1), Zhang G(1), Peng J(1), Ji X(1), Hai J(1), Deng X(1), Lin L(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Science and Technology, Kunming University of Science and 
Technology, 727 South Jingming Road, Chenggong District, Kunming, Yunnan 
Province, 650500, China.
(2)Faculty of Life Science and Technology, Kunming University of Science and 
Technology, 727 South Jingming Road, Chenggong District, Kunming, Yunnan 
Province, 650500, China; Engineering Research Center for Replacement Technology 
of Feed Antibiotics of Yunnan College, 727 South Jingming Road, Chenggong 
District, Kunming, Yunnan Province, 650500, China. Electronic address: 
linlb@kust.edu.cn.

Recently, high cell-density (HCD) cultivation has become an important tool for 
production of many microbial products. However, to the best of our knowledge, no 
study regarding HCD fermentation, overproduction and purification of 
thermostable bacteriophage lysin has been reported. Here, by employing a 
glucose-limited fed-batch strategy, we performed high density fermentation of 
the host Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) cells, compared the efficiency of high 
pressure homogenization, ultrasonication and thermolysis in bacterial cell 
disruption after HCD cultivation, and purified TSPphg, a thermostable lysin 
derived from extremophilic bacteriophage TSP4. On the 20-L scale, the 
overproduction level of TSPphg was up to 67.8 ± 0.7%. In total, we obtained a 
broth titer of 3322.8 ± 26 mg/L TSPphg with a purity of 95.5 ± 0.7% from a 
bacterial cell mass of 86.3 ± 4.9 g/L after 26 h of fermentation. The overall 
productivity of TSPphg was 127.8 ± 1 mg/L/h. Additionally, the antimicrobial 
activity of purified TSPphg against both Gram-negative (Escherichia coli O157) 
and Gram-positive (Staphylococcus aureus) pathogenic bacteria was further 
confirmed by scanning electron microscope analysis. Summarily, for the first 
time, we have established a relatively stable and efficient HCD cultivation and 
purification process for recovery of thermostable lysins from extremophilic 
Thermus bacteriophages. Our results provide insights into the strategies for 
time-saving and cost-effective production of antimicrobial proteins to replace 
or supplement antibiotics in the current age of mounting antibiotic resistance.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105676
PMID: 32442498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 Aug;102(16):6915-6921. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-018-9137-8. Epub 2018 Jun 9.

Polymeric solvent engineering for gram/liter scale production of a 
water-insoluble isoflavone derivative, (S)-equol.

Lee PG(1)(2), Lee SH(1)(2), Kim J(1)(2), Kim EJ(2)(3), Choi KY(4), Kim 
BG(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 1 
Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Bio-MAX Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, Ajou 
University, Suwon, Republic of Korea.
(5)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 1 
Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.
(6)Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.
(7)Bioengineering Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.
(8)Institute of Engineering Research, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.

A potent phytoestrogen, (S)-equol, is a promising isoflavone derivative drawing 
our great attention owing to its various biological and clinical benefits. 
Through selective activation of the estrogen receptor ERβ or androgen receptor, 
(S)-equol reduces menopausal symptoms, osteoporosis, skin aging, hair loss, and 
incidence of prostate or ovarian cancers without adverse effects. Traditional 
biosynthesis of (S)-equol exploited non-productive natural equol-producing 
anaerobic bacteria that mainly belong to Coriobacteriaceae isolated from human 
intestine. Recently, we developed a recombinant Escherichia coli strain which 
could convert daidzein into (S)-equol effectively under an aerobic condition. 
However, the yield was limited up to about the 200 mg/L level due to unknown 
reasons. In this study, we identified that the bottleneck of the limited 
production was the low solubility of isoflavone (i.e., 2.4 mg/L) in the reaction 
medium. In order to solve the solubility problem without harmful effect to the 
whole-cell catalyst, we applied commercial hydrophilic polymers (HPs) and a 
polar aprotic co-solvent in the reaction medium. Among the examined 
water-soluble polymers, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-40k was verified as the most 
promising supplement which increased daidzein solubility by 40 times and 
(S)-equol yield up to 1.22 g/L, the highest ever reported and the first g/L 
level biotransformation. Furthermore, PVP-40k was verified to significantly 
increase the solubilities of other water-insoluble natural polyphenols in 
aqueous solution. We suggest that addition of both HP and polar aprotic solvent 
in the reaction mixture is a powerful alternative to enhance production of 
polyphenolic chemicals rather than screening appropriate organic solvents for 
whole-cell catalysis of polyphenols.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-018-9137-8
PMID: 29948112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Res Pharm Sci. 2021 Mar 5;16(2):153-164. doi: 10.4103/1735-5362.310522. 
eCollection 2021 Apr.

Statistical optimization of culture conditions for expression of recombinant 
humanized anti-EpCAM single-chain antibody using response surface methodology.

Behravan A(1), Hashemi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehan, I.R. Iran.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), is one of 
the first cancer- associated markers discovered. Its overexpression in cancer 
stem cells, epithelial tumors, and circulating tumor cells makes this molecule 
interesting for targeted cancer therapy. So, in recent years scFv fragments have 
been developed for EpCAM targeting.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: In this study, an scFv against EpCAM extracellular domain 
(EpEX) derived from 4D5MOC-B humanized mAb was expressed in Escherichia coli k12 
strain, and in order to obtain the optimum culture conditions in chemically 
defined minimal medium, response surface methodology (RSM) was employed. 
According to the RSM-CCD method, a total of 30 experiments were designed to 
investigate the effects of various parameters including 
isopropyl-b-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) concentration, cell density before 
induction, post-induction time, and post-induction temperature on anti EpEX-scFv 
expression level.
FINDINGS/RESULTS: At the optimum conditions (induction at cell density 0.8 with 
0.8 mM IPTG for 24 h at 37 °C), the recombinant anti EpEX-scFv was produced at a 
titer of 197.33 μg/mL that was significantly consistent with the prediction of 
the model.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATION: The optimized-culture conditions obtained here for 
efficient production of anti EpEX-scFv in shake flask cultivation on a 
chemically defined minimal medium could be applied to large- scale fermentation 
for the anti EpEX-scFv production.

Copyright: © 2021 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.

DOI: 10.4103/1735-5362.310522
PMCID: PMC8102927
PMID: 34084202

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no conflict of interest in 
this study.


1538. Peptides. 2006 Jun;27(6):1179-86. doi: 10.1016/j.peptides.2005.11.007. Epub 2005 
Dec 13.

Design of genetically modified soybean proglycinin A1aB1b with multiple copies 
of bioactive peptide sequences.

Prak K(1), Maruyama Y, Maruyama N, Utsumi S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Quality Design and Development, Graduate School of 
Agriculture, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011, Japan.

The peptide IIAEK derived from beta-lactoglobulin has a hypocholesterolemic 
activity greater than that of beta-sitosterol. To create food proteins with 
multiple copies of this valuable peptide sequence, we introduced tandem 
multimers of the nucleotide sequence encoding the peptide into DNA regions 
corresponding to the five variable regions of soybean glycinin A1aB1b subunit, 
and expressed the mutants in Escherichia coli. The expression level and 
solubility of the five mutants, each containing four IIAEK sequences in each of 
the variable regions, were compared. Overall, the expression level and 
solubility of the mutants with four IIAEK sequences in the variable regions IV 
and V were the best followed by II > III > I. Further, introduction of the fifth 
IIAEK sequence to the variable region IV did not decrease expression level and 
solubility. Increasing the number of IIAEK to 7 and 10 slightly decreased 
expression level, while their solubility decreased to as low as 40 and 1%, 
respectively. Various mutations were combined to get a mutant containing as many 
IIAEK sequences as possible. Some of the resulting mutants were expressed in the 
soluble form. The mutant containing eight IIAEK from the combination of variable 
regions IV and V (IV-4 + V-4) showed the best balance of the expression level 
and solubility, followed by the combination of variable regions II and III (II-4 
+ III-4). The soluble fractions of these mutants were purified by hydrophobic, 
gel filtration and ion-exchange column chromatography. Yields of IIAEK peptide 
released by in vitro digestion with trypsin from both mutants were around 80%. 
This is the first report that a large amount of a physiologically active peptide 
could be introduced into food protein.

DOI: 10.1016/j.peptides.2005.11.007
PMID: 16356590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2002 Apr 23;210(1):135-41. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6968.2002.tb11172.x.

Genetic engineering of Streptococcus gordonii for the simultaneous display of 
two heterologous proteins at the bacterial surface.

Maggi T(1), Spinosa M, Ricci S, Medaglini D, Pozzi G, Oggioni MR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Microbiologia Molecolare e Biotecnologia (L.A.M.M.B.), 
Dipartimento di Biologia Molecolare, Sezione di Microbiologia, Università di 
Siena, Policlinico Le Scotte, Viale Bracci, 53100, Italy.

The Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus gordonii has been genetically 
engineered to allow the simultaneous expression of two heterologous proteins at 
the cell surface. A family of recombinant streptococci displaying two different 
antigens was constructed. All the strains were genetically stable and expressed 
both proteins at the surface of the same bacterial cell. S. gordonii 
co-expressing the immunomodulating molecule LTB (B monomer of Escherichia coli 
heat-labile toxin) and the V3 domain of HIV-1 gp120 were inoculated 
subcutaneously to BALB/c mice. Animals were capable of responding to both 
antigens, producing LTB- and V3-specific serum IgG. The V3-specific IgG titer 
was four-fold higher in mice immunised with the double protein-expressing 
bacteria, as compared to control animals inoculated either with S. gordonii 
expressing the V3 domain alone or with a mixture of the two strains expressing 
LTB and V3, separately. Therefore, LTB was able to potentiate the antibody 
response towards the V3 domain, and this effect was observed only when LTB was 
co-expressed on the same bacterial cell.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2002.tb11172.x
PMID: 12023090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Dec;74(2):211-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.06.007. Epub 
2010 Jun 22.

Crystallization of recombinant Bacteroides fragilis glutamine synthetase (GlnN) 
isolated using a novel and rapid purification protocol.

van Rooyen JM(1), Abratt VR, Belrhali H, Sewell BT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Cape Town, 
Rondebosch, South Africa. jason@science.uct.ac.za

Glutamine synthetase enzymes (GSs) are large oligomeric enzymes that play a 
critical role in nitrogen metabolism in all forms of life. To date, no crystal 
structures exist for the family of large (∼1 MDa) type III GS enzymes, which 
only share 9% sequence identity with the well characterized GSI and GSII 
enzymes. Here we present a novel protocol for the isolation of untagged 
Bacteroides fragilis GlnN expressed in an auxotrophic Escherichia coli strain. 
The rapid and scalable two-step protocol utilized differential precipitation by 
divalent cations followed by affinity chromatography to produce suitable 
quantities of homogenous material for structural characterization. Subsequent 
optimizations to the sample stability and solubility led to the discovery of 
conditions for the production of the first diffraction quality crystals of a 
type III GS enzyme.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.06.007
PMID: 20600942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Apr 16;511(4):813-819. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.02.103. Epub 2019 Mar 2.

Crystal structure of CYP76AH1 in 4-PI-bound state from Salvia miltiorrhiza.

Gu M(1), Wang M(2), Guo J(3), Shi C(1), Deng J(1), Huang L(3), Huang L(1), Chang 
Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing, 100191, China.
(2)Institute of Physical Science and Information Technology, Anhui University, 
Hefei, 230601, China.
(3)National Resource Center for Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100700, China.
(4)Department of Biophysics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing, 100191, China. Electronic address: changz@bjmu.edu.cn.

Tanshinones are important diterpenoid secondary metabolites from Salvia 
miltiorrhiza, widely used as cardiovascular and cerebrovascular medicines. 
CYP76AH1 is a membrane-associated cytochrome P450 enzyme and plays a critical 
role in the biosynthetic pathway of tanshinones. To clarify the relationship 
between structure and function of CYP76AH1, we recently constructed the 
expression vector of CYP76AH1 and purified the enzyme. The engineered CYP76AH1 
was expressed in E. coli Trans-blue cells and exhibited enhanced expression and 
solubility. The proper folding of the engineered CYP76AH1 was assessed by CO 
difference spectrum assay. Functional identification of the recombinant enzyme 
was performed by conducting enzymatic reaction with the purified CYP76AH1 in 
presence of substrate, the co-factor NADPH and the purified SmCPR1 (cytochrome 
P450 reductase from Salvia miltiorrhiza), and by subsequently analyzing the 
reaction extract through GC-MS. X-ray crystal complex structure of CYP76AH1 with 
inhibitor 4-phenylimmidazole (4-PI) was determined at the resolution of 2.6 Å. 
In the ligand-binding cavity of 4-PI bound CYP76AH1, the inhibitor 4-PI forms a 
hydrogen bound with a water molecule which coordinates with heme at the sixth 
coordination position. There are two open channels which substrate and product 
site may access and leave the active site. In the CYP76AH1/4-PI complex 
structure, the imidazole ring of 4-PI is parallel to helix I instead of 
perpendicular to helies I in most P450s bound imidazole. 4-PI may be work in the 
stability of CYP76AH1 crystal structure. These studies provide information on 
functional expression and purification of CYP76AH1, and overall structure of 
CYP76AH1 complexed with 4-PI.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.02.103
PMID: 30837155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. Protein Expr Purif. 2003 Dec;32(2):194-201. doi: 10.1016/S1046-5928(03)00225-0.

Soluble expression of a functionally active Plasmodium falciparum falcipain-2 
fused to maltose-binding protein in Escherichia coli.

Goh LL(1), Loke P, Singh M, Sim TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, National University of 
Singapore, MD4A, 5 Science Drive 2, Singapore 117597.

Falcipain-2 (fp2) is a hemoglobinase required for supplying peptides and amino 
acids for the proliferation of Plasmodium falciparum in blood. The prospect of 
circumventing its activity thereby serves as a potential strategy for mining 
drugs for anti-malarial therapy. However, to date, efforts to express soluble 
and active fp2 in Escherichia coli have been futile. To overcome this problem, 
fp2 was expressed under an array of conditions including the exploitation of 
multiple gene constructs in eukaryotic and prokaryotic hosts. A series of 
experiments led to the finding that the placement of maltose-binding protein 
(MBP) before the fp2 mature domain was best in availing the soluble expression 
of the protease. The results also indicate that the prodomain impaired the 
bacterial expression of the protease and the amino acid residues at the 
N-terminal segment of mature fp2 can have a significant effect on the folding 
and solubility of the enzyme. The overexpressed MBP-fp2 fusion protein was 
purified and shown to be functionally active, providing a very useful 
alternative to the use of resolubilized enzyme for future study of structure and 
function of fp2.

DOI: 10.1016/S1046-5928(03)00225-0
PMID: 14965764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. J Biol Chem. 2013 Oct 25;288(43):30855-61. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.467977. Epub 
2013 Sep 3.

Genetic code-guided protein synthesis and folding in Escherichia coli.

Hu S(1), Wang M, Cai G, He M.

Author information:
(1)From the School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084.

Universal genetic codes are degenerated with 61 codons specifying 20 amino 
acids, thus creating synonymous codons for a single amino acid. Synonymous 
codons have been shown to affect protein properties in a given organism. To 
address this issue and explore how Escherichia coli selects its 
"codon-preferred" DNA template(s) for synthesis of proteins with required 
properties, we have designed synonymous codon libraries based on an antibody 
(scFv) sequence and carried out bacterial expression and screening for variants 
with altered properties. As a result, 342 codon variants have been identified, 
differing significantly in protein solubility and functionality while retaining 
the identical original amino acid sequence. The soluble expression level varied 
from completely insoluble aggregates to a soluble yield of ~2.5 mg/liter, 
whereas the antigen-binding activity changed from no binding at all to a binding 
affinity of > 10(-8) m. Not only does our work demonstrate the involvement of 
genetic codes in regulating protein synthesis and folding but it also provides a 
novel screening strategy for producing improved proteins without the need to 
substitute amino acids.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.467977
PMCID: PMC3829400
PMID: 24003234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Biotechnol J. 2017 Oct;12(10). doi: 10.1002/biot.201600687. Epub 2017 Aug 24.

Biosensor-Enabled Directed Evolution to Improve Muconic Acid Production in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Leavitt JM(1), Wagner JM(2), Tu CC(2), Tong A(1), Liu Y(2), Alper HS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas at 
Austin, 2500 Speedway Avenue, Austin, TX, 78712, USA.
(2)McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering, The University of Texas at 
Austin, 200 E Dean Keeton St. Stop C0400, Austin, TX, 78712, USA.

Muconic acid is a valuable platform chemical with potential applications in the 
production of polymers such as nylon and polyethylene terephthalate (PET). The 
conjugate base, muconate, has been previously biosynthesized in the bacterial 
host Escherichia coli. Likewise, previous significant pathway engineering lead 
to the first reported instance of rationally engineered production of muconic 
acid in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To further increase muconic acid 
production in this host, a combined adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) strategy 
and rational metabolic engineering is employed. To this end, a biosensor module 
that responds to the endogenous aromatic amino acid (AAA) as a surrogate for 
pathway flux is adapted. Following two rounds of ALE coupled with an 
anti-metabolite feeding strategy, the strains with improved AAA pathway flux is 
isolated. Next, it is demonstrated that this increased flux can be redirected 
into the composite muconic acid pathway with a threefold increase in the total 
titer of the composite pathway compared to our previously engineered strain. 
Finally, a truncation of the penta-functional ARO1 protein is complemented and 
overexpress an endogenous aromatic decarboxylase to establish a final strain 
capable of producing 0.5 g L-1 muconic acid in shake flasks and 2.1 g L-1 in a 
fed-batch bioreactor with a yield of 12.9 mg muconic acid/g glucose at the rate 
of 9.0 mg h-1 . This value represents the highest titer of muconic acid reported 
to date in S. cerevisiae, in addition to the highest reported titer of a 
shikimate pathway derivative in this host.

© 2017 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201600687
PMID: 28296355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1545. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2015 Aug;89(4):181-92. doi: 10.1002/arch.21235. 
Epub 2015 Mar 23.

IDENTIFICATION AND EXPRESSION ANALYSIS OF VITELLOGENIN RECEPTOR FROM THE WILD 
SILKWORM, Bombyx mandarina.

Qian C(1), Fu WW(1), Wei GQ(1), Wang L(1), Liu QN(1), Dai LS(1), Sun Y(1), Zhu 
BJ(1), Liu CL(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, P. R. China.

The vitellogenin receptor (VgR) plays a key role on embryonic development in 
oviparous animals. Here, we cloned a VgR gene, which was identified from the 
wild silkworm Bombyx mandarina (BmaVgR) using reverse transcriptase polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). Sequence 
analysis revealed that BmaVgR is 5,861 bp long with an open reading frame 
encoded by 1,811 amino acid residues. The predicted amino acid sequence has 99.7 
and 98.2% identity with the VgRs of Actias selene and Bombyx mori, respectively. 
The class B domain sequence of BmaVgR was cloned and expressed in Escherichia 
coli, and purified by a Ni-NTA column. Polyclonal antibodies were produced 
against the purified recombinant protein, and titer of the antibody was about 
1:12,800 measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Western blot and 
RT-qPCR showed that BmaVgR was expressed in the ovary and fat body of female 
larvae and the ovary of moth, and the expression level was highest at the third 
day and then declined from third day to seventh in fat body of pupa. After 
knockdown of the BmaVgR gene through RNA interference (RNAi), other three 
BmaVgR-related genes (Vg, egg-specific protein, and low molecular weight 
lipoprotein LP gene) were all downregulated significantly.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.21235
PMID: 25808998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1546. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1118:35-54. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-782-2_3.

A cell-free expression screen to identify fusion tags for improved protein 
expression.

Kralicek A(1).

Author information:
(1)The New Zealand Institute for Plant & Food Research Limited, Auckland, New 
Zealand.

Cell-free protein synthesis can now be routinely used for the rapid screening of 
protein expression at the microliter level using PCR-amplified templates. 
However, identification of the optimal expression construct for a target protein 
can still be a problem. A rapid cell-free procedure is described here for the 
systematic assessment of a range of diverse fusion tags on the expression and 
solubility of any given target protein. Overlap/extension PCR is used to fuse a 
library of T7 promoter (T7p)-tag fragments with a gene-T7terminator (T7ter) 
fragment to produce cell-free expression templates encoding different fusion 
proteins. These constructs are then expressed in a series of small-scale (50 μL) 
Escherichia coli cell-free reactions and SDS-PAGE analysis is used to identify 
the optimal fusion tag(s). This screen is particularly useful for the 
identification of expression constructs for proteins that are normally poorly 
expressed or are insoluble.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-782-2_3
PMID: 24395408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1547. BMC Immunol. 2004 Mar 16;5:5. doi: 10.1186/1471-2172-5-5.

Endothelial cells present antigens in vivo.

Rothermel AL(1), Wang Y, Schechner J, Mook-Kanamori B, Aird WC, Pober JS, 
Tellides G, Johnson DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Interdepartmental Program in Vascular Biology and 
Transplantation, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New 
Haven, CT 06510, USA. arothermel@niaid.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: Immune recognition of vascular endothelial cells (EC) has been 
implicated in allograft rejection, protection against pathogens, and lymphocyte 
recruitment. However, EC pervade nearly all tissues and predominate in none, 
complicating any direct test of immune recognition. Here, we examined antigen 
presentation by EC in vivo by testing immune responses against E. coli 
beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) in two lines of transgenic mice that express 
beta-gal exclusively in their EC. TIE2-lacZ mice express beta-gal in all EC and 
VWF-lacZ mice express beta-gal in heart and brain microvascular EC.
RESULTS: Transgenic and congenic wild type FVB mice immunized with beta-gal 
expression vector DNA or beta-gal protein generated high titer, high affinity 
antisera containing comparable levels of antigen-specific IgG1 and IgG2a 
isotypes, suggesting equivalent activation of T helper cell subsets. The 
immunized transgenic mice remained healthy, their EC continued to express 
beta-gal, and their blood vessels showed no histological abnormalities. In 
response to beta-gal in vitro, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from immunized transgenic 
and FVB mice proliferated, expressed CD25, and secreted IFN-gamma. Infection 
with recombinant vaccinia virus encoding beta-gal raised equivalent responses in 
transgenic and FVB mice. Hearts transplanted from transgenic mice into FVB mice 
continued to beat and the graft EC continued to express beta-gal. These results 
suggested immunological ignorance of the transgene encoded EC protein. However, 
skin transplanted from TIE2-lacZ onto FVB mice lost beta-gal+ EC and the hosts 
developed beta-gal-specific antisera, demonstrating activation of host immune 
effector mechanisms. In contrast, skin grafted from TIE2-lacZ onto VWF-lacZ mice 
retained beta-gal+ EC and no antisera developed, suggesting a tolerant host 
immune system.
CONCLUSION: Resting, beta-gal+ EC in transgenic mice tolerize specific 
lymphocytes that would otherwise respond against beta-gal expressed by EC within 
transplanted skin. We conclude that EC effectively present intracellular "self" 
proteins to the immune system. However, antigen presentation by EC does not 
delete or anergize a large population of specific lymphocytes that respond to 
the same protein following conventional immunization with protein or expression 
vector DNA. These results clearly demonstrate striking context sensitivity in 
the immune recognition of EC, a subtlety that must be better understood in order 
to treat immune diseases and complications involving the vasculature.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2172-5-5
PMCID: PMC394319
PMID: 15113397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 10;7:444. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00444. 
eCollection 2019.

Plasmid Display for Stabilization of Enzymes Inside the Cell to Improve 
Whole-Cell Biotransformation Efficiency.

Park Y(1), Shin J(1), Yang J(1), Kim H(1), Jung Y(1), Oh H(1), Kim Y(1), Hwang 
J(1), Park M(1), Ban C(1)(2), Jeong KJ(3), Kim SK(4), Kweon DH(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biotechnology, College of Biotechnology and 
Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon-si, South Korea.
(2)Institute of Biomolecule Control, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon-si, South 
Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, KAIST, Daejeon, South 
Korea.
(4)Department of Food Science and Technology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong, 
South Korea.
(5)Institute of Biologics, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon-si, South Korea.

Recombinant whole-cell biocatalysts are widely used for biotransformation of 
valuable products. However, some key enzymes involved in biotransformation 
processes are unstable and cannot be easily expressed in the functional form. In 
this study, we describe a versatile platform for enzyme stabilization inside the 
cell: Intracellularly Immobilized Enzyme System (IIES). A 1,2-fucosyltransferase 
from Pedobactor saltans (PsFL) and a 1,3-fucosyltransferase from Helicobacter 
pylori (HpFL), chosen as model proteins, were fused with Oct-1 DNA-binding 
domain, which mediated the formation of a plasmid-protein complex. Oct-1 fusion 
enabled both soluble and stable expression of recombinant proteins in the 
cytoplasm because the fusion proteins were stabilized on the plasmid like 
immobilized enzymes bound to solid surface. As a result, Oct-1-fusion proteins 
exhibited significantly greater product titer and yield than non-fusion 
proteins. Use of fusion proteins PsFL-Oct-1 with C-terminal Oct-1 and Oct-1-PsFL 
with N-terminal Oct-1 resulted in ~3- and ~2-fold higher 2'-fucosyllactose 
titers, respectively, than with the use of PsFL alone. When Oct-1 was fused to 
HpFL, which requires dimerization through heptad repeats, almost two times more 
3-fucosyllactose was produced. Fucosyllactose has been used as a food additive 
because it has various beneficial effects on human health. We anticipate that 
IIES using Oct-1 fusion protein developed in this study can be applied to 
stabilize other unstable enzymes.

Copyright © 2020 Park, Shin, Yang, Kim, Jung, Oh, Kim, Hwang, Park, Ban, Jeong, 
Kim and Kweon.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00444
PMCID: PMC6967079
PMID: 31998709


1549. Protein Expr Purif. 2019 Nov;163:105452. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105452. Epub 
2019 Jul 11.

Expression, purification, and in vitro characterization of kinase domain of 
NtGCN2 from tobacco.

Hao Y(1), Yang Y(1), Zhang S(1), Li Y(1), Zhai C(1), Long Y(1), Jia H(1), Zhang 
S(2).

Author information:
(1)Henan Agricultural University, College of Tobacco Science, Tobacco 
Cultivation Key Laboratory of China, Zhengzhou, 450002, China.
(2)Henan Agricultural University, College of Tobacco Science, Tobacco 
Cultivation Key Laboratory of China, Zhengzhou, 450002, China. Electronic 
address: zhangsongzi@henau.edu.cn.

General control nonderepressible 2 (GCN2) can phosphorylate the α subunit of 
eukaryotic initiation factor eIF2 (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2) 
to down-regulateprotein synthesis in response to various biotic and abiotic 
stresses. However, the kinase activity of plant GCN2 has not been 
well-characterized in vitro. In this study, the kinase domain of Nicotiana 
tabacum GCN2 (NtGCN2) was inserted into the pET15b vector for prokaryotic 
expressionin Escherichia coli BL21-CodonPlus-(DE3)-RIPL after induction by 
0.5 mmol L-1 IPTG for 13 h at 16 °C. The soluble protein was collected and 
purified by Ni2+-NTA agarose column, anion exchange, and molecular sieve, and 
the purified proteinwas used for kinase assays and the preparation of a 
polyclonal antibody. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed that the 
titer of the antiserum was 1:520K. Western blot analysis showed that the 
prepared antibody reacted with GCN2 in tobacco. Additionally, the kinase 
activity of NtGCN2 was characterized by using recombinant NteIF2α protein as a 
substrate in vitro. The results showed that NtGCN2 phosphorylated NteIF2α 
in vitro, with the level of phosphorylation positively correlated with the 
NtGCN2 concentration and reaction time. Our study has prepared a specific 
antibody, and proves NtGCN2 can phosphorylate NteIF2α in vitro, which lays a 
foundation for further study of the function and interaction network of NtGCN2.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2019.105452
PMID: 31301428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Microb Biotechnol. 2013 Nov;6(6):675-84. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.12075. Epub 2013 
Aug 6.

Engineering of recombinant Escherichia coli cells co-expressing poly-γ-glutamic 
acid (γ-PGA) synthetase and glutamate racemase for differential yielding of 
γ-PGA.

Cao M(1), Geng W, Zhang W, Sun J, Wang S, Feng J, Zheng P, Jiang A, Song C.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology for Ministry of 
Education, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China; Tianjin Institute of 
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, 300308, China.

Poly-γ-glutamic acid (γ-PGA) is a promising environmental-friendly material with 
outstanding water solubility, biocompatibility and degradability. However, it is 
tough to determine the relationship between functional synthetic enzyme and the 
strains' yield or substrate dependency. We cloned γ-PGA synthetase genes pgsBCA 
and glutamate racemase gene racE from both L-glutamate-dependent γ-PGA-producing 
Bacillus licheniformis NK-03 and L-glutamate-independent B. amyloliquefaciens 
LL3 strains. The deduced RacE and PgsA from the two strains shared the identity 
of 84.5% and 78.53%, while PgsB and PgsC possessed greater similarity with 
93.13% and 93.96%. The induced co-expression of pgsBCA and racE showed that the 
engineered Escherichia coli strains had the capacity of synthesizing γ-PGA, and 
LL3 derived PgsBCA had higher catalytic activity and enhanced productivity than 
NK-03 in Luria-Bertani medium containing glucose or L-glutamate. However, the 
differential effect was weakened when providing sufficient immediateness 
L-glutamate substrate, that is, the supply of substrate could be served as the 
ascendance upon γ-PGA production. Furthermore, RacE integration could enhance 
γ-PGA yield through improving the preferred d-glutamate content. This is the 
first report about co-expression of pgsBCA and racE from the two Bacillus 
strains, which will be of great value for the determination of the biosynthetic 
mechanism of γ-PGA.

© 2013 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
and Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.12075
PMCID: PMC3815934
PMID: 23919316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Vaccine. 2013 Aug 28;31(38):4152-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.06.094. Epub 
2013 Jul 8.

Vaccination with recombinant Clostridium perfringens toxoids α and β promotes 
elevated antepartum and passive humoral immunity in swine.

Salvarani FM(1), Conceição FR, Cunha CE, Moreira GM, Pires PS, Silva RO, Alves 
GG, Lobato FC.

Author information:
(1)Escola de Veterinária, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, CP 567, CEP 
30123-970, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

Due to the increasingly restricted use of antimicrobials in animal production 
systems, the prevention and control of Clostridium perfringens type A- and 
C-induced diarrhea in piglets should be based on passive immunization via the 
prepartum vaccination of sows. Given the current obstacles in the production of 
conventional clostridial vaccines, the use of recombinant proteins has been 
considered to represent a promising alternative. In the present study, the 
neutralizing antibody response of immunized sows and their litters to a bivalent 
vaccine containing the C. perfringens recombinant toxoids alpha (rTA) and beta 
(rTB) produced in Escherichia coli was assessed. Rabbits (n=8) and pregnant sows 
(n=7) were immunized with 200μg of each recombinant antigen using Al(OH)3 as 
adjuvant. The alpha and beta antitoxin titer detected in the rabbits' serum pool 
was 9.6 and 20.4IU/mL, respectively. The mean alpha and beta antitoxin titers in 
the sows' sera were 6.0±0.9IU/mL and 14.5±2.2IU/mL, and the corresponding 
individual coefficients of variation (CV) were 16.04% and 14.91%, respectively. 
The mean alpha and beta antitoxin titers in the litters' serum pools were 
4.2±0.4IU/mL and 10.9±1.7IU/mL, and the CV between litters was 9.23% and 9.85%, 
respectively. The results showed that the rTA and rTB proteins produced and 
tested in the present study induced an immune response and can be regarded as 
candidates for the development of a commercial vaccine against C. perfringens 
type A- and C-induced diarrhea in pigs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.06.094
PMID: 23845812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. J Biotechnol. 2011 Sep 20;155(3):275-83. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2011.07.013. 
Epub 2011 Jul 27.

Expressivity tag: a novel tool for increased expression in Escherichia coli.

Hansted JG(1), Pietikäinen L, Hög F, Sperling-Petersen HU, Mortensen KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Aarhus University, Gustav Wieds Vej 10C, 
DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Protein expression in Escherichia coli is rarely trivial as low expression and 
insolubility are common problems. In this work we define a fusion partner, which 
increases expression levels similarly to the distinct function of solubility and 
affinity tags. This type of fusion tag we term an expressivity tag. Our work is 
based on earlier observations where 3' deletions of the InfB gene displays 
strongly increased expression levels. We have constructed progressively 
shortened fragments of the InfB(1-471) gene and fused gene fragments to a gfp 
reporter gene. A 5-fold increase in GFP expression was seen for an optimal 21 
nucleotide InfB(1-21) sequence compared to gfp independently. We defined the 
InfB(1-21) sequence as an expressivity tag. The tag was tested for improved 
expression of two biotechnological important proteins streptavidin and a single 
chain antibody (scFv). Expression of both streptavidin and scFv(L32) was 
improved as evaluated by SDS-PAGE. Calculation of folding energies in the 
translation initiation region gave higher free energies for gfp, L32 and 
streptavidin when linked to InfB(1-21) than independently. InfB(1-21) did 
however not improve the codon usage or codon adaptation index. The expressivity 
tag is an important addition to the box of tools available for optimizing 
heterologous protein expression.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2011.07.013
PMID: 21801766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. J Vet Med Sci. 2013;75(6):779-84. doi: 10.1292/jvms.12-0267. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

Subcutaneous or oral immunization of mice with Lactococcus lactis expressing F4 
fimbrial adhesin FaeG.

Liu S(1), Li Y, Xu Z, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science, Zhejiang Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, 145 Shiqiao Road, Hangzhou 310021, Zhejiang, China.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is one of the most common causes of 
diarrhea in neonatal and postweaning piglets. Fimbrial adhesion of ETEC has been 
considered an important colonization factor with antigenicity. To safely and 
effectively deliver the F4 (K88) fimbrial adhesin FaeG to the immune system, we 
have previously constructed the secretory expression vector pNZ8112-faeG, and 
FaeG was produced in cytoplasmic form in Lactococcus lactis. In this work, 
BALB/c mice were immunized with recombinant L. lactis to further determine the 
immunogenicity of recombinant FaeG (rFaeG) via the subcutaneous or oral route. 
Subcutaneous immunization in mice with recombinant L. lactis induced a 
significant increase in the F4-specific serum IgG titer and the number of 
antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) in the spleen. Oral immunization of mice with 
recombinant L. lactis induced mucosal and systemic F4-specific immune responses 
and increased the number of ASCs in the spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes and 
Peyer's patches. High-dose (2.8 × 10(11) CFU) recombinant strains and adjuvant 
cholera toxin B subunit enhanced specific mucosal immune responses. The results 
suggest the feasibility of delivering rFaeG expressed in L. lactis to the immune 
system in order to induce an F4-specific immune response.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.12-0267
PMID: 23386358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. Protein Expr Purif. 2000 Jul;19(2):312-8. doi: 10.1006/prep.2000.1251.

Controlled intracellular processing of fusion proteins by TEV protease.

Kapust RB(1), Waugh DS.

Author information:
(1)Program in Structural Biology, National Cancer Institute-Frederick Cancer 
Research and Development Center, Frederick, Maryland, 21702-1201, USA.

Here we describe a method for controlled intracellular processing (CIP) of 
fusion proteins by tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease. A fusion protein 
containing a TEV protease recognition site is expressed in Escherichia coli 
cells that also contain a TEV protease expression vector. The fusion protein 
vector is an IPTG-inducible ColE1-type plasmid, such as a T7 or tac promoter 
vector. In contrast, the TEV protease is produced by a compatible p15A-type 
vector that is induced by tetracyclines. Not only is the TEV protease regulated 
independently of the fusion protein, but its expression is highly repressed in 
the absence of inducer. Certain fusion partners have been shown to enhance the 
yield and solubility of their passenger proteins. When CIP is used as a 
purification step, it is possible to take advantage of these characteristics 
while both eliminating the need for large amounts of pure protease at a later 
stage and possibly simplifying the purification process. Additionally, we have 
observed that in some cases the timing of intracellular proteolysis can affect 
the solubility of the cleaved passenger protein, allowing it to be directed to 
either the soluble or the insoluble fraction of the crude cell lysate. This 
method also makes it possible to quickly gauge the efficiency of proteolysis in 
vivo, before protein purification has begun and in vitro processing is 
attempted.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/prep.2000.1251
PMID: 10873547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Mar 31;14(1):2831-49. doi: 10.4238/2015.March.31.14.

Molecular cloning and characterization, and prokaryotic expression of the GnRH1 
gene obtained from Jinghai yellow chicken.

Zhang T(1), Zhang GX(1), Han KP(1), Tang Y(1), Wang JY(2), Fan QC(1), Chen 
XS(1), Wei Y(1), Wang YJ(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 
China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 
China jywang@yzu.edu.cn.
(3)Jiangsu Jinghai Poultry Group Co., Ltd., Nantong, Jiangsu, China.

The gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) plays an important role in the control 
of reproductive functions. Recent studies have reported the occurrence of GnRH 
molecular variants in numerous species. In this study, the GnRH1 gene from 
Jinghai yellow chicken was cloned by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain 
reaction and transformed into BL21 (DE3) competent cells. The GnRH1 gene and 
amino acid sequences were subjected to bioinformatic analyses. The GnRH1 gene 
nucleotide sequence was discovered to be 352 bp long, containing a coding, 
promoter, and section of the 3'-regions. The GnRH1 gene shared 93, 81, 54, 58, 
61, 76, 76, 59, 76, and 66% sequence identity with Meleagris gallopavo, Columba 
livia, Homo sapiens, Bos taurus, swines, Capra hircus, Ovis aries, Pantholops 
hodgsonii, Equus caballus, and Rattus norvegicus, respectively. The GnRH1 gene 
showed conserved domains. The GnRH1 protein was a secreted protein comprising 92 
amino acids, with a molecular weight of 10205.6 Da and a theoretical pI of 5.67. 
Most of the amino acid residues were observed to be hydrophilic, indicating 
water solubility. The predicted secondary structures of proteins included 
α-helices (h; 23.08%), β-extensions (e; 10.92%), and random coils (c; 66.0%). 
The successful construction of prokaryotic expression vector pET32a-GnRH1 was 
confirmed by restriction and sequence analysis. SDS-PAGE analysis showed the 
successful expression of recombinant plasmid in Escherichia coli BL21 (molecular 
weight = 25-28 kDa). Larger quantities of protein were expressed in supernatant, 
indicating greater expression in soluble form. Western blot analysis confirmed 
the expression of the target protein.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.March.31.14
PMID: 25867433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2001 Nov 1;395(1):57-68. doi: 10.1006/abbi.2001.2574.

A truncation of 2B subfamily cytochromes P450 yields increased expression 
levels, increased solubility, and decreased aggregation while retaining 
function.

Scott EE(1), Spatzenegger M, Halpert JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, Texas, 77555-1031, USA. eescott@utmb.edu

The hydrophobic membrane-spanning domain in four cytochromes P450 2B was removed 
(Delta3-21) and several positive charges were substituted at the N-terminus to 
increase expression and solubility. Histidine residues were appended to the 
C-terminus to simplify purification. The truncated proteins were highly 
expressed in Escherichia coli, could be released from the membrane using high 
salt conditions, and were purified from this fraction to specific contents up to 
19 nmol P450/mg protein using a single Ni(2+)-agarose column. Gel filtration 
revealed that truncated P450 2B1 forms a monodisperse solution of hexamers in 
the absence of detergent and >95% monomers in 0.25% sodium cholate. All 
truncated proteins, including human 2B6, were active with 
7-ethoxy-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin, and truncated 2B1 was shown to retain the 
native regio- and stereospecificity of testosterone hydroxylation. These data 
demonstrate that modification of the N-terminus yields high levels of properly 
folded P450s 2B with increased solubility, which are suitable for functional and 
structural analysis.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abbi.2001.2574
PMID: 11673866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Aug;36(2):217-25. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.04.002.

Bacterial cell-free system for high-throughput protein expression and a 
comparative analysis of Escherichia coli cell-free and whole cell expression 
systems.

Murthy TV(1), Wu W, Qiu QQ, Shi Z, LaBaer J, Brizuela L.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Institute of Proteomics, 320 Charles street, Cambridge, MA 02141, 
USA.

Sixty-three proteins of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the size range of 18-159 kDa 
were tested for expression in a bacterial cell-free system. Fifty-one of the 63 
proteins could be expressed and partially purified under denaturing conditions. 
Most of the expressed proteins showed yields greater than 500 ng after a single 
affinity purification step from 50 microl in vitro protein synthesis reactions. 
The in vitro protein expression plus purification in a 96-well format and 
analysis of the proteins by SDS-PAGE were performed by one person in 4 h. A 
comparison of in vitro and in vivo expression suggests that despite lower yields 
and less pure protein preparations, bacterial in vitro protein expression 
coupled with single-step affinity purification offers a rapid, efficient 
alternative for the high-throughput screening of clones for protein expression 
and solubility.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.04.002
PMID: 15249043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1558. 3 Biotech. 2021 Jul;11(7):333. doi: 10.1007/s13205-021-02885-7. Epub 2021 Jun 
15.

Combinatorial approach for improved production of whole-cell 3-aminopropionic 
acid in recombinant Bacillus megaterium: codon optimization, gene duplication 
and process optimization.

Tadi SRR(1), Nehru G(1), Sivaprakasam S(1).

Author information:
(1)BioPAT Laboratory, Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian 
Institute of Technology Guwahati, Guwahati, 781039 Assam India.

In this study, we aimed to develop a Bacillus megaterium based whole-cell 
biocatalyst for the bio-production of 3-aminopropionic acid (3-APA). 
l-aspartate-α-decarboxylases (ADC) (EC: 4.1.1.11) from Escherichia coli, B. 
megaterium, Corynebacterium glutamicum, and Bacillus subtilis were expressed 
in B. megaterium. B. subtilis derived ADC (panD Bs ) exhibited the highest ADC 
activity of 0.9 ± 0.02 U/mL in recombinant B. megaterium. Combination of codon 
optimization and gene duplication strategies resulted in 415.56% enhancement of 
ADC activity compared to panD Bs . The culture growth conditions of B. 
megaterium (BMD-7) for 3-APA production were optimized as follows: inducer 
concentration, 0.5% (w/v); time of induction, 3 h; induction temperature, 37 °C 
and post-induction incubation time, 8 h. Improvement of the whole-cell 
biocatalytic process efficiency, was dealt by optimization of reaction 
temperature, reaction pH, metal ion additives and l-aspartic acid concentration. 
Shake flask level experiments yielded an enhanced 3-APA titer (16.18 ± 0.26 g/L) 
and a yield of 0.89 g/g under optimized conditions viz., 45 °C, pH 6.0 and 
20 g/L of l-aspartic acid. This study demonstrates the potential of B. 
megaterium for 3-APA production and paves the scope for the development of 3-APA 
producing strains in near future.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1007/s13205-021-02885-7.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2021.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-021-02885-7
PMCID: PMC8206245
PMID: 34221804

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest in the publication.


1559. Bioresour Technol. 2012 Aug;118:390-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2012.05.064. Epub 
2012 May 22.

Effect of heat-alkaline treatment as a pretreatment method on volatile fatty 
acid production and protein degradation in excess sludge, pure proteins and pure 
cultures.

Tan R(1), Miyanaga K, Uy D, Tanji Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama 226 
8501, Japan.

This study investigated the effect of heat-alkaline treatment (HAT) at pH 11 and 
60 °C on volatile fatty acid (VFA) production and protein degradation in excess 
sludge, soluble and insoluble proteins, and pure cultures. In addition, 
quantification of bacteria present in the sludge was also examined. Experimental 
results showed that following acid fermentation under pH 7 and 37 °C, HAT 
enhanced VFA production in excess sludge, albumin, and Gram-negative bacteria, 
but not in casein or Gram-positive bacteria. Protein solubility was therefore 
found not to be the main criteria for VFA production. In the protein analysis, 
it was shown that the outer membrane protein (OmpC) of Escherichia coli K12 was 
resistant to chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis. Gram staining revealed that 
Gram-negative bacteria were predominant in the activated sludge used in this 
study. In addition, the bacteria present in the activated sludge comprised only 
10% of mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS) by quantitative PCR.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2012.05.064
PMID: 22705961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2003 Aug;43(4):442-7.

[cDNA cloning and expression in Escherichia coli of rice black-streaked dwarf 
virus segment 7].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhong Y(1), Zhou J, Zhuang B, Wei C, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China. 
zhyw9@pku.edu.cn

Using primers designed from the terminal sequences of maize rough dwarf virus 
S6, a 2.2 kb cDNA fragment was amplified by RT-PCR from maize plants showing 
maize rough dwarf disease. Sequence analysis shows that the full length of this 
cDNA is 2193bp. It contains two open reading frames that encoded two 
polypeptides with molecular weight of 41.0kD and 36.3kD, respectively. Results 
of multi-sequences alignment suggest that, this cDNA sequence has significant 
similarity to rice black-streaked dwarf virus S7, much higher than to MRDV S6. 
The ORFs were cloned into expression vectors, pET21-d (ORF1) or pGEX-KG (ORF2), 
respectively, and then transformed to BL21(DE3)-gold. After induction with IPTG, 
both proteins were highly expressed. The recombinant proteins were purified and 
high titer antisera of these two proteins were prepared.

PMID: 16276917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1561. Protein Pept Lett. 2008;15(7):745-52. doi: 10.2174/092986608785133654.

Construction, expression, purification and immunology effect of an 
anti-atherosclerosis chimeric enzyme vaccine in Escherichia coli.

Yunxiao S(1), Zhufang L, Xin Y, Jun L, Qiyan X, Gaofu Q, Rongyue C, Jie W, 
Jingjing L, Hao F, Taiming L.

Author information:
(1)Minigene Pharmacy Laboratory, Biopharmaceutical College, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, People's Republic of China. Liujingj@public1.ptt.js.cn.

In order to prevent atherosclerosis, a chimeric enzyme vaccine of 
AnsB-TTP-PADRE-CETPC was successfully constructed, expressed and purified to 
immunize New Zealand white rabbits for inducing high titers of anti-CETP 
antibodies to improve lipid abnormality. The protein was expressed as soluble 
protein in Escherichia coli and purified by anion exchange column and Sephadex 
G-100 size-exclusion chromatography. After immunizing rabbits with the purified 
protein, high titer anti-CETP antibodies were induced and lasted more than 
nineteen weeks in vivo; High density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) content in 
the serum was elevated to 61% while decreased low density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C) to 37.2% compared with control rabbits in the presence of 
Al(OH) (3).

DOI: 10.2174/092986608785133654
PMID: 18782072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1562. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2016 Nov 1;9:234. doi: 10.1186/s13068-016-0644-5. 
eCollection 2016.

Comparison of aldehyde-producing activities of cyanobacterial acyl-(acyl carrier 
protein) reductases.

Kudo H(1), Nawa R(2), Hayashi Y(3), Arai M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902 Japan.
(2)Department of Pure and Applied Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902 Japan.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902 Japan ; Department of 
Pure and Applied Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, The University of 
Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902 Japan.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902 Japan ; Department of 
Pure and Applied Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, The University of 
Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902 Japan ; Precursory Research for 
Embryonic Science and Technology, Japan Science and Technology Agency, 4-1-8 
Honcho, Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012 Japan.

BACKGROUND: Biosynthesis of alkanes is an attractive way of producing 
substitutes for petroleum-based alkanes. Acyl-[acyl carrier protein (ACP)] 
reductase (AAR) is a key enzyme for alkane biosynthesis in cyanobacteria and 
catalyzes the reduction of fatty acyl-ACP to fatty aldehydes, which are then 
converted into alkanes/alkenes by aldehyde-deformylating oxygenase (ADO). The 
amino acid sequences of AARs vary among cyanobacteria. However, their 
differences in catalytic activity, substrate specificity, and solubility are 
poorly understood.
RESULTS: We compared the aldehyde-producing activity, substrate specificity, and 
solubility of AARs from 12 representative cyanobacteria. The activity is the 
highest for AAR from Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942, followed by AAR from 
Prochlorococcus marinus MIT 9313. On the other hand, protein solubility is high 
for AARs from PCC 7942, Microcystis aeruginosa, Thermosynechococcus elongatus 
BP-1, Synechococcus sp. RS9917, and Synechococcus sp. CB0205. As a consequence, 
the amount of alkanes/alkenes produced in Escherichia coli coexpressing AAR and 
ADO is the highest for AAR from PCC 7942, followed by AARs from BP-1 and MIT 
9313. Strikingly, AARs from marine and freshwater cyanobacteria tend to have 
higher specificity toward the substrates with 16 and 18 carbons in the fatty 
acyl chain, respectively, suggesting that the substrate specificity of AARs 
correlates with the type of habitat of host cyanobacteria. Furthermore, 
mutational analysis identified several residues responsible for the high 
activity of AAR.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that the activity, substrate specificity, and solubility 
are diverse among various AARs. Our results provide a basis for selecting an AAR 
sequence suitable for metabolic engineering of bioalkane production while 
regulating carbon chain length.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-016-0644-5
PMCID: PMC5090900
PMID: 27822307


1563. J Sci Food Agric. 2021 Dec 21. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.11735. Online ahead of print.

Overexpression and biochemical characterization of a carboxyspermidine 
dehydrogenase from Agrobacterium fabrum str. C58 and its application to 
carboxyspermidine production.

Liang X(1), Deng H(1), Xiong T(2), Bai Y(3), Fan TP(4), Zheng X(3), Cai Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Xinyang Normal University, Xinyang, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Northwest University, Xi'an, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Carboxyspermidine (C-Spd) is a potentially valuable polyamine 
carboxylate compound and an excellent building block for spermidine synthesis, 
which is a critical polyamine with significant implications for human health and 
longevity. C-Spd can also be used to prepare multivalent cationic lipids and 
modify nucleoside probes. Because of these positive effects on human health, 
C-Spd is of considerable interest as a food additive and pharmaceutical target.
RESULTS: A putative gene afcasdh from Agrobacterium fabrum str. C58, encoding 
carboxyspermidine dehydrogenase with C-Spd biosynthesis activity, was 
synthesized and transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) for overexpression. 
The recombinant AfCASDH was purified and fully characterized. The optimum 
temperature and pH for the recombinant enzyme were 30 °C and 7.5, respectively. 
The coupled catalytic strategy of AfCASDH and various NADPH regeneration systems 
were developed to enhance the efficient production of C-Spd compound. Finally, 
the maximum titer of C-Spd production successfully achieved 1.82 mmol L-1 with a 
yield of 91% by optimizing the catalytic conditions.
CONCLUSION: A novel AfCASDH from A. fabrum str. C58 was characterized that could 
catalyze the formation of C-Spd from putrescine and l-aspartate-β-semialdehyde 
(L-Asa). A whole-cell catalytic strategy coupled with NADPH regeneration was 
established successfully for C-Spd biosynthesis for the first time. The coupled 
system indicated that AfCASDH might provide a feasible method for the industrial 
production of C-Spd. © 2021 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2021 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.11735
PMID: 34932223


1564. Int J Nanomedicine. 2014 May 30;9:2727-39. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S60014. eCollection 
2014.

Synthesis and characterization of different immunogenic viral nanoconstructs 
from rotavirus VP6 inner capsid protein.

Bugli F(1), Caprettini V(2), Cacaci M(1), Martini C(1), Paroni Sterbini F(1), 
Torelli R(1), Della Longa S(3), Papi M(4), Palmieri V(4), Giardina B(5), 
Posteraro B(1), Sanguinetti M(1), Arcovito A(5).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Microbiologia, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Fisica, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica, Sanità Pubblica, Scienze della Vita e 
dell'Ambiente, Università dell'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(4)Istituto di Fisica, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(5)Istituto di Biochimica e Biochimica Clinica, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, Rome, Italy.

In order to deliver low-cost viral capsomeres from a large amount of soluble 
viral VP6 protein from human rotavirus, we developed and optimized a 
biotechnological platform in Escherichia coli. Specifically, three different 
expression protocols were compared, differing in their genetic constructs, ie, a 
simple native histidine-tagged VP6 sequence, VP6 fused to thioredoxin, and VP6 
obtained with the newly described small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) fusion 
system. Our results demonstrate that the histidine-tagged protein does not 
escape the accumulation in the inclusion bodies, and that SUMO is largely 
superior to the thioredoxin-fusion tag in enhancing the expression and 
solubility of VP6 protein. Moreover, the VP6 protein produced according to the 
SUMO fusion tag displays well-known assembly properties, as observed in both 
transmission electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy images, giving rise 
to either VP6 trimers, 60 nm spherical virus-like particles, or nanotubes a few 
microns long. This different quaternary organization of VP6 shows a higher level 
of immunogenicity for the elongated structures with respect to the spheres or 
the protein trimers. Therefore, the expression and purification strategy 
presented here - providing a large amount of the viral capsid protein in the 
native form with relatively simple, rapid, and economical procedures - opens a 
new route toward large-scale production of a more efficient antigenic compound 
to be used as a vaccination tool or as an adjuvant, and also represents a 
top-quality biomaterial to be further modified for biotechnological purposes.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S60014
PMCID: PMC4047981
PMID: 24936129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. Protein Expr Purif. 2011 May;77(1):104-11. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.11.016. Epub 
2010 Dec 2.

Screening of genetic parameters for soluble protein expression in Escherichia 
coli.

Vernet E(1), Kotzsch A, Voldborg B, Sundström M.

Author information:
(1)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark. 
erik.vernet@cpr.ku.dk

Soluble expression of proteins in a relevant form for functional and structural 
investigations still often remains a challenge. Although many biochemical 
factors are known to affect solubility, a thorough investigation of 
yield-limiting factors is normally not feasible in high-throughput efforts. Here 
we present a screening strategy for expression of biomedically relevant proteins 
in Escherichia coli using a panel of six different genetic variations. These 
include engineered strains for rare codon supplementation, increased disulfide 
bond formation in the cytoplasm and novel vectors for secretion to the periplasm 
or culture medium. Combining these variants with expression construct 
truncations design, we report on parallel cloning and expression of more than 
300 constructs representing 24 selected proteins; including full-length variants 
of human growth factors, interleukins and growth factor binding proteins. This 
rapid screening approach appears highly suitable for high-throughput efforts 
targeting either large sets of proteins or more focused investigations regarding 
individual high-profile targets.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.11.016
PMID: 21130169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. Biotechnol Lett. 2012 Jan;34(1):91-6. doi: 10.1007/s10529-011-0743-0. Epub 2011 
Sep 29.

Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolase II is associated with the outer membrane 
when overexpressed in Escherichia coli.

Abdeljabbar DM(1), Song HJ, Link AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering, Princeton University, 
Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

Cellulose degradation is essential for the future production of many advanced 
biofuels. Cellulases from the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei are among 
the most efficient enzymes for the hydrolysis of cellulosic materials. One of 
the cellulases from T. reesei, cellobiohydrolase II (CBH2), was studied because 
of its industrial relevance and proven enzymatic activity. Using both crude and 
rigorous membrane fractionation methods we show that full length T. reesei CBH2 
is exclusively localized to the outer membrane when expressed recombinantly in 
Escherichia coli. Even fusing signal sequence-free maltose-binding protein to 
the N-terminus of CBH2, which has been shown to increase solubility of other 
proteins, did not prevent the outer membrane localization of CBH2. These results 
highlight the difficulties in producing fungal cellulases in bacterial hosts and 
provide a stepping stone for future cellulase engineering efforts.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-011-0743-0
PMID: 21956129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Mol Immunol. 2006 Apr;43(11):1912-9. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2005.10.012. Epub 
2005 Dec 15.

A novel designed single domain antibody on 3-D structure of ricin A chain 
remarkably blocked ricin-induced cytotoxicity.

Shuntao W(1), Jiannan F, Jianwei G, Leiming G, Yan L, Yingxun S, Weisong Q, 
Meiru H, Gencheng H, Beifen S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Department of Molecular Immunology, P.O. 
Box 130 (3), Taiping Road, Beijing 100850, PR China.

Ricin A chain (RA), an N-glycosidase, is able to fatally disrupt protein 
synthesis by attacking the Achilles heel of the ribosome RNA (rRNA). As specific 
immunotoxins, emergence of inhibitors for RA may obtain access to antagonistics 
against ricin intoxication and contribute to ameliorate the concomitant side 
effects. Many experimental results showed that the engineered VHs, which 
possessed solubility, stability, small size and consequently easier to express, 
purify and manipulate in vitro, were self and long-lived molecules compared to 
synthetic peptides. In this study, based on the crystal structure of RA, a novel 
recombinant human single-domain antibody expressing a polypeptide against RA in 
the CDR3 loop (named rVH(PT)) was obtained using computer-guided molecular 
design method. Theoretically, rVH(PT) could penetrate deeply into the active 
cleft of RA and act as a potent antagonist analogue to block the RA-rRNA 
interaction. Followed results showed that the recombinant VH(PT) was easily 
expressed of high-yield production and in a partially soluble fusion form in 
Escherichia coli. In vitro cytotoxicity experiments demonstrated that it 
possessed remarkable ability to block ricin-induced cytotoxicity. This study 
highlights the potential of human VH to display biostructure and biofunction of 
peptides designed on RA functional domain and could be useful in developing new 
antidotes with potential therapeutic uses to neutralize unintended exposure to 
ricin.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2005.10.012
PMID: 16343623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1568. Microbes Infect. 2006 Apr;8(4):1054-63. doi: 10.1016/j.micinf.2005.11.004. Epub 
2006 Jan 19.

Construction of an infectious clone of canine herpesvirus genome as a bacterial 
artificial chromosome.

Arii J(1), Hushur O, Kato K, Kawaguchi Y, Tohya Y, Akashi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Graduate School of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1, Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, 
Japan.

Canine herpesvirus (CHV) is an attractive candidate not only for use as a 
recombinant vaccine to protect dogs from a variety of canine pathogens but also 
as a viral vector for gene therapy in domestic animals. However, developments in 
this area have been impeded by the complicated techniques used for eukaryotic 
homologous recombination. To overcome these problems, we used bacterial 
artificial chromosomes (BACs) to generate infectious BACs. Our findings may be 
summarized as follows: (i) the CHV genome (pCHV/BAC), in which a BAC flanked by 
loxP sites was inserted into the thymidine kinase gene, was maintained in 
Escherichia coli; (ii) transfection of pCHV/BAC into A-72 cells resulted in the 
production of infectious virus; (iii) the BAC vector sequence was almost 
perfectly excisable from the genome of the reconstituted virus CHV/BAC by 
co-infection with CHV/BAC and a recombinant adenovirus that expressed the Cre 
recombinase; and (iv) a recombinant virus in which the glycoprotein C gene was 
deleted was generated by lambda recombination followed by Flp recombination, 
which resulted in a reduction in viral titer compared with that of the wild-type 
virus. The infectious clone pCHV/BAC is useful for the modification of the CHV 
genome using bacterial genetics, and CHV/BAC should have multiple applications 
in the rapid generation of genetically engineered CHV recombinants and the 
development of CHV vectors for vaccination and gene therapy in domestic animals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micinf.2005.11.004
PMID: 16515874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. Fungal Genet Biol. 2011 Jun;48(6):602-11. doi: 10.1016/j.fgb.2011.01.013. Epub 
2011 Feb 12.

A clone-based transcriptomics approach for the identification of genes relevant 
for itaconic acid production in Aspergillus.

Li A(1), van Luijk N, ter Beek M, Caspers M, Punt P, van der Werf M.

Author information:
(1)TNO Microbiology and Systems Biology, PO Box 360, 3700 AJ Zeist, Netherlands. 
an.li@tno.nl

Several Aspergillus species are well-known for the production of a variety of 
organic acids. In this study, a cloned based transcriptomics approach was used 
to identify genes crucial in the biosynthesis pathway for one of these acids, 
itaconic acid. From a number of different Aspergillus terreus controlled batch 
fermentations, those cultures with the largest difference in itaconic acid titer 
and productivity were selected for mRNA isolation. cDNAs derived from these mRNA 
samples were used for subsequent hybridization of glass slide arrays based on a 
collection of 5000 cDNA clones. A selection of 13 cDNA clones resulting in the 
strongest (>10-fold) differential hybridization signals were identified and 
subsequently the inserts of these clones were sequenced. Sequence analysis 
revealed the presence of in total five different gene inserts among the 
sequenced clones. From one of these sequences, encoding a gene of the MmgE-PrpD 
family, the full length coding region was shown to encode one of the crucial 
itaconic acid pathway enzymes cis-aconitate decarboxylase, by heterologous 
expression in Escherichia coli. Expression of this gene in Aspergillus niger, 
which is a natural citric acid producer, resulted in itaconate production. 
Genome analysis suggests that in A. terreus the cis-aconitate decarboxylase gene 
is part of an itaconate acid related gene cluster including genes encoding two 
pathway specific transporters and a Zinc finger protein. Interestingly, this 
cluster is directly linked to the large lovastatin gene cluster.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fgb.2011.01.013
PMID: 21324422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. Biotechnol J. 2017 Sep;12(9). doi: 10.1002/biot.201700199. Epub 2017 Aug 10.

Improving Succinate Productivity by Engineering a Cyanobacterial CO(2) 
Concentrating System (CCM) in Escherichia coli.

Xiao M(1)(2)(3), Zhu X(1)(2), Bi C(1)(2), Ma Y(1), Zhang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin, China.
(3)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Biologically fixation of CO2 has great potential as a significant carbon source 
for biosynthesis, which is also a major way to reduce CO2 accumulation in 
atmosphere. Phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxylation is the key step of anaerobic 
succinate production in Escherichia coli. In this reaction, one mole CO2 is 
assimilated with PEP to form oxaloacetate by PEP carboxykinase (PCK). The 
preferred substrate of PCK is CO2 , which is very limited in cytoplasm. In this 
study, the carbon concentration mechanism (CCM) of cyanobacteria was introduced 
into Escherichia coli to enhance the intracellular inorganic carbon 
concentration for improving carboxylation velocity. Overexpression of the 
bicarbonate transporter (BT) or carbonic anhydrase (CA) gene from Synechococcus 
sp. PCC7002 led to a 22 or 35% increase in succinate titer at 36 h, 
respectively. The carboxylation rate of PCK increased from 2.46 to 
3.92 µmol min-1  mg-1 protein by overexpression of the CA gene. In addition, 
co-overexpression of BT and CA genes had a synergetic effect, leading to a 44% 
increase in succinate titer at 36 h. This work is the first attempt to increase 
carbon fixation involved in microbial biosynthesis by engineering a biological 
CO2 delivery system, which provides new direction and strategies for improving 
industrial fermentations based on biological CO2 assimilation pathways.

© 2017 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.201700199
PMID: 28731528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. Biochemistry. 2013 Apr 2;52(13):2165-75. doi: 10.1021/bi400220w. Epub 2013 Mar 
21.

Expression, purification, characterization, and solution nuclear magnetic 
resonance study of highly deuterated yeast cytochrome C peroxidase with enhanced 
solubility.

Volkov AN(1), Wohlkonig A, Soror SH, van Nuland NA.

Author information:
(1)Jean Jeener NMR Centre, Structural Biology Brussels, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050 Brussels, Belgium. ovolkov@vub.ac.be

Here we present the preparation, biophysical characterization, and nuclear 
magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy study of yeast cytochrome c peroxidase 
(CcP) constructs with enhanced solubility. Using a high-yield Escherichia coli 
expression system, we routinely produced uniformly labeled [(2)H,(13)C,(15)N]CcP 
samples with high levels of deuterium incorporation (96-99%) and good yields 
(30-60 mg of pure protein from 1 L of bacterial culture). In addition to 
simplifying the purification procedure, introduction of a His tag at either 
protein terminus dramatically increases its solubility, allowing preparation of 
concentrated, stable CcP samples required for multidimensional NMR spectroscopy. 
Using a range of biophysical techniques and X-ray crystallography, we 
demonstrate that the engineered His tags neither perturb the structure of the 
enzyme nor alter the heme environment or its reactivity toward known ligands. 
The His-tagged CcP constructs remain catalytically active yet exhibit 
differences in the interaction with cytochrome c, the physiological binding 
partner, most likely because of steric occlusion of the high-affinity binding 
site by the C-terminal His tag. We show that protein perdeuteration greatly 
increases the quality of the double- and triple-resonance NMR spectra, allowing 
nearly complete backbone resonance assignments and subsequent study of the CcP 
by heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy.

DOI: 10.1021/bi400220w
PMID: 23517193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. Cell Stress Chaperones. 2000 Apr;5(2):148-59. doi: 
10.1379/1466-1268(2000)005<0148:fcoxsh>2.0.co;2.

Functional characterization of Xenopus small heat shock protein, Hsp30C: the 
carboxyl end is required for stability and chaperone activity.

Fernando P(1), Heikkila JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

Small heat shock proteins protect cells from stress presumably by acting as 
molecular chaperones. Here we report on the functional characterization of a 
developmentally regulated, heat-inducible member of the Xenopus small heat shock 
protein family, Hsp30C. An expression vector containing the open reading frame 
of the Hsp30C gene was expressed in Escherichia coli. These bacterial cells 
displayed greater thermoresistance than wild type or plasmid-containing cells. 
Purified recombinant protein, 30C, was recovered as multimeric complexes which 
inhibited heat-induced aggregation of either citrate synthase or luciferase as 
determined by light scattering assays. Additionally, 30C attenuated but did not 
reverse heat-induced inactivation of enzyme activity. In contrast to an 
N-terminal deletion mutant, removal of the last 25 amino acids from the 
C-terminal end of 30C severely impaired its chaperone activity. Furthermore, 
heat-treated concentrated solutions of the C-terminal mutant formed 
nonfunctional complexes and precipitated from solution. Immunoblot and gel 
filtration analysis indicated that 30C binds with and maintains the solubility 
of luciferase preventing it from forming heat-induced aggregates. 
Coimmunoprecipitation experiments suggested that the carboxyl region is 
necessary for 30C to interact with target proteins. These results clearly 
indicate a molecular chaperone role for Xenopus Hsp30C and provide evidence that 
its activity requires the carboxyl terminal region.

DOI: 10.1379/1466-1268(2000)005<0148:fcoxsh>2.0.co;2
PMCID: PMC312903
PMID: 11147966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. J Agric Food Chem. 2021 Jul 28;69(29):8172-8178. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c02958. 
Epub 2021 Jul 20.

Production of Succinic Acid from Amino Acids in Escherichia coli.

Chiang CJ(1), Hu RC(2), Huang ZC(2), Chao YP(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Science and Biotechnology, China Medical 
University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih Road, Taichung 40402, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Feng Chia University 100 Wenhwa Road, 
Taichung 40724, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung 
40447, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Food Nutrition and Health Biotechnology, Asia University, 
Taichung 41354, Taiwan.

Glutamate (Glu) and aspartate (Asp) are the most abundant amino acids in various 
sources of protein waste, recognized as a sustainable resource. In this study, 
Escherichia coli was engineered to produce succinic acid (SA) from Glu and Asp. 
Succinate dehydrogenase involved in the tricarboxylic acid was inactivated in 
the Glu-utilizing strain. To grow on Asp, this mutant strain was subjected to 
metabolic evolution. One resulting strain capable of metabolizing Asp was 
further evolved to improve the growth of Glu and Asp. After the deletion of 
arcA, the resulting strain was employed for the aerobic production of SA. The 
shake-flask culture was conducted with the minimal medium containing 10 g/L Glu 
and 10 g/L Asp. Finally, it resulted in the SA production, with a titer, the 
molar yield, and productivity reaching 72.8 mM (i.e., 8.6 g/L), 0.54 (ca. 75.4% 
of the theoretical yield), and 0.66 g/L/h, respectively. Overall, this study 
opens up a new avenue of the biorefinery platform based on renewable amino 
acids.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.1c02958
PMID: 34282894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1574. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Mar;52(1):167-74. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.09.008. Epub 
2006 Sep 20.

Overexpression and purification of human calcitonin gene-related 
peptide-receptor component protein in Escherichia coli.

Tolun AA(1), Dickerson IM, Malhotra A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, P.O. Box 016129, Miami, FL 33101-6129, USA.

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a neuropeptide secreted by the central 
and peripheral nervous system nerves that has important physiological functions 
such as vasodilation, cardiotonic actions, metabolic and pro-inflammatory 
effects. The CGRP receptor is unique among G-protein coupled receptors in that a 
functional CGRP receptor consists of at least three proteins: calcitonin like 
receptor (CLR), receptor activity modifying protein (RAMP1) and receptor 
component protein (RCP). RCP is a required factor in CGRP-mediated signal 
transduction and it couples the CGRP receptor to the signal transduction 
pathway. Here, we describe methods to overexpress and purify RCP for 
structure-function studies. Human RCP was cloned and overexpressed with a 
poly-histidine tag and as a maltose binding protein (MBP) fusion in Escherichia 
coli using commercially available expression vectors. While His tagged RCP is 
prone to aggregation, solubility is improved when RCP is expressed as a MBP 
fusion. Expression and purification procedures for these constructs are 
described. Results from these studies will facilitate structural analysis of 
human RCP, and allow further understanding of RCP function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.09.008
PMCID: PMC1839922
PMID: 17067815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1575. Genet Vaccines Ther. 2009 Jun 8;7:7. doi: 10.1186/1479-0556-7-7.

Enhancement of the expression of HCV core gene does not enhance core-specific 
immune response in DNA immunization: advantages of the heterologous DNA prime, 
protein boost immunization regimen.

Alekseeva E(1), Sominskaya I, Skrastina D, Egorova I, Starodubova E, Kushners E, 
Mihailova M, Petrakova N, Bruvere R, Kozlovskaya T, Isaguliants M, Pumpens P.

Author information:
(1)Latvian Biomedical Research and Study Centre, Ratsupites 1, Riga, LV-1067, 
Latvia. kate@biomed.lu.lv

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C core protein is an attractive target for HCV vaccine 
aimed to exterminate HCV infected cells. However, although highly immunogenic in 
natural infection, core appears to have low immunogenicity in experimental 
settings. We aimed to design an HCV vaccine prototype based on core, and devise 
immunization regimens that would lead to potent anti-core immune responses which 
circumvent the immunogenicity limitations earlier observed.
METHODS: Plasmids encoding core with no translation initiation signal 
(pCMVcore); with Kozak sequence (pCMVcoreKozak); and with HCV IRES 
(pCMVcoreIRES) were designed and expressed in a variety of eukaryotic cells. 
Polyproteins corresponding to HCV 1b amino acids (aa) 1-98 and 1-173 were 
expressed in E. coli. C57BL/6 mice were immunized with four 25-microg doses of 
pCMVcoreKozak, or pCMV (I). BALB/c mice were immunized with 100 microg of either 
pCMVcore, or pCMVcoreKozak, or pCMVcoreIRES, or empty pCMV (II). Lastly, BALB/c 
mice were immunized with 20 microg of core aa 1-98 in prime and boost, or with 
100 microg of pCMVcoreKozak in prime and 20 microg of core aa 1-98 in boost 
(III). Antibody response, [3H]-T-incorporation, and cytokine secretion by 
core/core peptide-stimulated splenocytes were assessed after each immunization.
RESULTS: Plasmids differed in core-expression capacity: mouse fibroblasts 
transfected with pCMVcore, pCMVcoreIRES and pCMVcoreKozak expressed 0.22 +/- 
0.18, 0.83 +/- 0.5, and 13 +/- 5 ng core per cell, respectively. Single 
immunization with highly expressing pCMVcoreKozak induced specific IFN-gamma and 
IL-2, and weak antibody response. Single immunization with plasmids directing 
low levels of core expression induced similar levels of cytokines, strong T-cell 
proliferation (pCMVcoreIRES), and antibodies in titer 103(pCMVcore). Boosting 
with pCMVcoreKozak induced low antibody response, core-specific T-cell 
proliferation and IFN-gamma secretion that subsided after the 3rd plasmid 
injection. The latter also led to a decrease in specific IL-2 secretion. The 
best was the heterologous pCMVcoreKozak prime/protein boost regiment that 
generated mixed Th1/Th2-cellular response with core-specific antibodies in titer 
>or= 3 x 10(3).
CONCLUSION: Thus, administration of highly expressed HCV core gene, as one large 
dose or repeated injections of smaller doses, may suppress core-specific immune 
response. Instead, the latter is induced by a heterologous DNA prime/protein 
boost regiment that circumvents the negative effects of intracellular core 
expression.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-0556-7-7
PMCID: PMC2702340
PMID: 19505299


1576. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 24;11:1717. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01717. eCollection 
2020.

Metabolic Engineering of Oleaginous Yeast Yarrowia lipolytica for Overproduction 
of Fatty Acids.

Ghogare R(1), Chen S(1), Xiong X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Systems Engineering, Washington State University, 
Pullman, WA, United States.

The oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica has attracted much attention due to its 
ability to utilize a wide range of substrates to accumulate high lipid content 
and its flexibility for genetic manipulation. In this study, intracellular lipid 
metabolism in Y. lipolytica was tailored to produce fatty acid, a renewable 
oleochemical and precursor for production of advanced biofuels. Two main 
strategies, including blocking activation and peroxisomal uptake of fatty acids 
and elimination of biosynthesis of lipids, were employed to reduce fatty acid 
consumption by the native pathways in Y. lipolytica. Both genetic modifications 
improved fatty acid production. However, disruption of the genes responsible for 
assembly of nonpolar lipid molecules including triacylglycerols (TAGs) and 
steryl esters resulted in the deleterious effects on the cell growth. The gene 
tesA encoding thioesterase from Escherichia coli was expressed in the strain 
with disrupted faa genes encoding fatty acyl-CoA synthetases and pxa1 encoding 
peroxisomal acyl-CoA transporter, and the titer of fatty acids resulted in 2.3 
g/L in shake flask culture, representing 11-fold improvement compared with the 
parent strain. Expressing the native genes encoding acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) 
and hexokinase also increased fatty acid production, although the improvement 
was not as significant as that with tesA expression. Saturated fatty acids 
including palmitic acid (C16:0) and stearic acid (C18:0) increased remarkably in 
the fatty acid composition of the recombinant bearing tesA compared with the 
parent strain. The recombinant expressing tesA gene resulted in high lipid 
content, indicating the great fatty acid producing potential of Y. lipolytica. 
The results highlight the achievement of fatty acid overproduction without 
adverse effect on growth of the strain. Results of this study provided insight 
into the relationship between fatty acid and lipid metabolism in Y. lipolytica, 
confirming the avenue to reprogram lipid metabolism of this host for 
overproduction of renewable fatty acids.

Copyright © 2020 Ghogare, Chen and Xiong.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01717
PMCID: PMC7418586
PMID: 32849364


1577. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2013 Dec;110(12):3126-38. doi: 10.1002/bit.24978. Epub 2013 
Jul 1.

Automated disposable small scale reactor for high throughput bioprocess 
development: a proof of concept study.

Bareither R(1), Bargh N, Oakeshott R, Watts K, Pollard D.

Author information:
(1)Biologics New and Enabling Technologies, BioProcess Dev, Merck Research Labs, 
Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, New Jersey 08831.

The acceleration of bioprocess development for biologics and vaccines can be 
enabled by automated high throughput technologies. This will alleviate the 
significant resource burden from the multi-factorial statistical experimentation 
required for controlling product quality attributes of complex biologics. Recent 
technology advances have improved clone evaluation and screening, but have 
struggled to combine the scale down criteria required for both high cell density 
cell culture and microbial processes, with sufficient automation and disposable 
technologies to accelerate process development. This article describes the proof 
of concept evaluations of an automated disposable small scale reactor for high 
throughput upstream process development. Characterization studies established 
the small scale stirred tank disposable 250 mL reactor as similar to those of 
lab and pilot scale. The reactor generated equivalent process performance for 
industrial biologics processes for therapeutic protein and monoclonal antibody 
production using CHO cell culture, Pichia pastoris and E. coli. This included 
similar growth, cell viability, product titer, and product quality. The 
technology was shown to be robust across multiple runs and met the requirements 
for the ability to run high cell density processes (>400 g/L wet cell weight) 
with exponential feeds and sophisticated event triggered processes. Combining 
this reactor into an automated array of reactors will ultimately be part of a 
high throughput process development strategy. This will combine upstream, small 
scale purification with rapid analytics that will dramatically shorten timelines 
and costs of developing biological processes.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.24978
PMID: 23775295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Vet Res. 2012 Mar 19;43(1):20. doi: 10.1186/1297-9716-43-20.

Protective effect of recombinant staphylococcal enterotoxin A entrapped in 
polylactic-co-glycolic acid microspheres against Staphylococcus aureus 
infection.

Chen L(1), Li S, Wang Z, Chang R, Su J, Han B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, China 
Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China. suzhang@cau.edu.cn.

Staphylococcus aureus is an important cause of nosocomial and community-acquired 
infections in humans and animals, as well as the cause of mastitis in dairy 
cattle. Vaccines aimed at preventing S. aureus infection in bovine mastitis have 
been studied for many years, but have so far been unsuccessful due to the 
complexity of the bacteria, and the lack of suitable vaccine delivery vehicles. 
The current study developed an Escherichia coli protein expression system that 
produced a recombinant staphylococcal enterotoxin A (rSEA) encapsulated into 
biodegradable microparticles generated by polylactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) 
dissolved in methylene chloride and stabilized with polyvinyl acetate. Antigen 
loading and surface properties of the microparticles were investigated to 
optimize particle preparation protocols. The prepared PLGA-rSEA microspheres had 
a diameter of approximately 5 μm with a smooth and regular surface. The 
immunogenicity of the PLGA-rSEA vaccine was assessed using mice as an animal 
model and showed that the vaccine induced a strong humoral immune response and 
increased the percent survival of challenged mice and bacterial clearance. 
Histological analysis showed moderate impairment caused by the pathogen upon 
challenge afforded by immunization with PLGA-rSEA microspheres. Antibody titer 
in the sera of mice immunized with PLGA-rSEA microparticles was higher than in 
vaccinated mice with rSEA. In conclusion, the PLGA-rSEA microparticle vaccine 
developed here could potentially be used as a vaccine against enterotoxigenic S. 
aureus.

DOI: 10.1186/1297-9716-43-20
PMCID: PMC3353243
PMID: 22429499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. Protein Expr Purif. 2012 Sep;85(1):25-31. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.06.012. Epub 
2012 Jun 29.

Efficient stable isotope labeling and purification of vitamin D receptor from 
inclusion bodies.

Zhu J(1), Rao H, Tonelli M, Westler WM, Singarapu KK, Markley JL, DeLuca HF, 
Assadi-Porter FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53706, USA.

Vitamin D receptor (VDR) plays a crucial role in many cellular processes 
including calcium and phosphate homeostasis. Previous purification methods from 
prokaryotic and eukaryotic expression systems were challenged by low protein 
solubility accompanied by multi purification steps resulting in poor protein 
recovery. The full-length VDR and its ligand binding domain (LBD) were mostly 
(>90%) insoluble even when expressed at low temperatures in the bacterial 
system. We describe a one-step procedure that results in the purification of rat 
VDR and LBD proteins in high-yield from Escherichia coli inclusion bodies. The 
heterologously expressed protein constructs retained full function as 
demonstrated by ligand binding and DNA binding assays. Furthermore, we describe 
an efficient strategy for labeling these proteins with (2)H, (13)C, and (15)N 
for structural and functional studies by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) 
spectroscopy. This efficient production system will facilitate future studies on 
the mechanism of vitamin D action including characterization of the large number 
of synthetic vitamin D analogs that have been developed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.06.012
PMCID: PMC3432171
PMID: 22750673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Virus Res. 2014 Jan 22;179:44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2013.11.015. Epub 2013 
Nov 28.

Subcellular localization of bacteriophage PRD1 proteins in Escherichia coli.

Karttunen J(1), Mäntynen S(1), Ihalainen TO(2), Lehtivuori H(2), Tkachenko 
NV(3), Vihinen-Ranta M(2), Ihalainen JA(2), Bamford JK(1), Oksanen HM(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Excellence in Biological Interactions, Department of Biological and 
Environmental Science and Nanoscience Center, P.O. Box 35, 40014 University of 
Jyväskylä, Finland.
(2)Nanoscience Center, Department of Biological and Environmental Science, P.O. 
Box 35, 40014 University of Jyväskylä, Finland.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Bioengineering, Tampere University of Technology, 
P.O. Box 541, 33101 Tampere, Finland.
(4)Institute of Biotechnology and Department of Biosciences, P.O. Box 56, 00014 
University of Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address: hanna.oksanen@helsinki.fi.

Bacteria possess an intricate internal organization resembling that of the 
eukaryotes. The complexity is especially prominent at the bacterial cell poles, 
which are also known to be the preferable sites for some bacteriophages to 
infect. Bacteriophage PRD1 is a well-known model serving as an ideal system to 
study structures and functions of icosahedral internal membrane-containing 
viruses. Our aim was to analyze the localization and interactions of individual 
PRD1 proteins in its native host Escherichia coli. This was accomplished by 
constructing a vector library for production of fluorescent fusion proteins. 
Analysis of solubility and multimericity of the fusion proteins, as well as 
their localization in living cells by confocal microscopy, indicated that 
multimeric PRD1 proteins were prone to localize in the cell poles. Furthermore, 
PRD1 spike complex proteins P5 and P31, as fusion proteins, were shown to be 
functional in the virion assembly. In addition, they were shown to co-localize 
in the specific polar area of the cells, which might have a role in the 
multimerization and formation of viral protein complexes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2013.11.015
PMID: 24291253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. J Biol Chem. 2001 Mar 9;276(10):7346-50. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M007734200. Epub 2000 
Oct 25.

Camel single-domain antibodies as modular building units in bispecific and 
bivalent antibody constructs.

Els Conrath K(1), Lauwereys M, Wyns L, Muyldermans S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrastructure, Vlaams Interuniversitair Instituut voor 
Biotechnologie, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Paardenstraat 65, B-1640 Sint 
Genesius Rode, Belgium. kconrath@vub.ac.be

Single-domain antibodies against various antigens are isolated from the unique 
heavy-chain antibodies of immunized camels and llamas. These minimal sized 
binders are very robust and bind the antigen with high affinity in a monomeric 
state. We evaluated the feasibility to produce soluble, functional bispecific 
and bivalent antibodies in Escherichia coli with camel single-domain antibody 
fragments as building blocks. Two single-domain antibody fragments were tethered 
by the structural upper hinge of a natural antibody to generate bispecific 
molecules. This linker was chosen for its protease resistance in serum and its 
natural flexibility to reorient the upstream and downstream located domains. The 
expression levels, ease of purification, and the solubility of the recombinant 
proteins were comparable with those of the constituent monomers. The individual 
moieties fully retain the binding capacity and the binding characteristics 
within the recombinant bispecific constructs. The easy generation steps and the 
biophysical properties of these bispecific and bivalent constructs based on 
camel single-domain antibody fragments makes them particularly attractive for 
use in therapeutic or diagnostic programs.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M007734200
PMID: 11053416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1582. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 Dec;62(2):139-45. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.08.008. Epub 
2008 Sep 3.

High-level expression and purification of the second transmembrane domain of 
wild-type and mutant human melanocortin-4 receptor for solid-state NMR 
structural studies.

Park TJ(1), Choi SS, Gang GA, Kim Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Protein Research Center for Bio-Industry, Hankuk 
University of Foreign Studies, Yongin, Republic of Korea.

It has been demonstrated that human melanocortin-4 receptor (hMC4R) plays an 
important role in the control of energy homeostasis, and heterozygous mutations 
in the hMC4R gene are the most frequent genetic cause of severe human obesity. 
In order to obtain additional insight into the structure and function, we 
cloned, expressed, and purified the second transmembrane domain of the wild-type 
hMC4R (wt-TM2) and D90N mutant hMC4R (m-TM2). To facilitate structural studies 
of these hMC4R by solid-state NMR, efficient methods for the production of 
milligram quantities of isotopically labeled protein are necessary. However, 
large-scale production of most transmembrane proteins has been limited by 
experimental adversities due to insufficient yields and low solubility of 
protein. Nevertheless, through the optimization of the expression and 
purification approach, we could obtain uniformly or selectively labeled fusion 
proteins in yields as high as 200-250 mg per liter M9 minimal medium. These 
proteins were overexpressed in inclusion bodies as a fusion protein with 
ketosteroid isomerase (KSI) in Escherichia coli, and the fusion protein was 
purified using immobilized metal affinity chromatography under denaturing 
conditions. wt-/m-TM2 peptides were released from the fusion by cyanogen bromide 
cleavage at the Met residue and separated from the carrier KSI by size exclusion 
chromatography. Initial structural data obtained by solution NMR measurements of 
wt-/m-TM2 is also presented. The successful application to the production of the 
second transmembrane domain of human MC4R indicates that the method can be 
applied to other transmembrane proteins as well and also enable its structural 
and functional studies using solid-state NMR spectroscopy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2008.08.008
PMID: 18809499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. J Biosci Bioeng. 2018 Oct;126(4):470-477. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.04.012. 
Epub 2018 May 24.

Efficient production of trans-4-hydroxy-l-proline from glucose using a new 
trans-proline 4-hydroxylase in Escherichia coli.

Wang XC(1), Liu J(2), Zhao J(3), Ni XM(4), Zheng P(5), Guo X(6), Sun CM(7), Sun 
JB(8), Ma YH(9).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; University 
of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, PR China. Electronic address: 
wang_xc@tib.cas.cn.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: liu_j@tib.cas.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: zhao_j@tib.cas.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: ni_xm@tib.cas.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: zheng_p@tib.cas.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: guo_x@tib.cas.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: sun_cm@tib.cas.cn.
(8)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China; Tianjin Institute of Industrial 
Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic 
address: sun_jb@tib.cas.cn.
(9)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Tianjin 300308, PR China. Electronic address: ma_yh@tib.cas.cn.

trans-4-Hydroxy-l-proline (trans-4Hyp) is widely used as a valuable building 
block for the organic synthesis of many pharmaceuticals such as carbapenem 
antibiotics. The major limitation for industrial bioproduction of trans-4Hyp is 
the low titer and productivity by using the existing trans-proline 
4-hydroxylases (trans-P4Hs). Herein, three new trans-P4Hs from Alteromonas 
mediterranea (AlP4H), Micromonospora sp. CNB394 (MiP4H) and Sorangium cellulosum 
(ScP4H) were discovered through genome mining and enzymatic determination. These 
trans-P4Hs were introduced into an l-proline-producing chassis cell, and the 
recombinant strain overexpressing AlP4H produced the highest concentration of 
trans-4Hyp (3.57 g/L) from glucose in a shake flask. In a fed-batch fermentation 
with a 5 L bioreactor, the best strain SEcH (pTc-B74A-alp4h) accumulated 
45.83 g/L of trans-4Hyp within 36 h, with the highest productivity (1.27 g/L/h) 
in trans-4Hyp fermentation from glucose, to the best of our knowledge. This 
study provides a promising hydroxylase candidate for efficient industrial 
production of trans-4Hyp.

Copyright © 2018 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.04.012
PMID: 29805115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. Virus Res. 2018 Sep 15;257:14-24. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2018.08.016. Epub 2018 
Aug 23.

Novel genetically stable infectious clone for a Zika virus clinical isolate and 
identification of RNA elements essential for virus production.

Chen Y(1), Liu T(2), Zhang Z(1), Chen M(1), Rong L(1), Ma L(1), Yu B(3), Wu 
D(4), Zhang P(2), Zhu X(1), Huang X(5), Zhang H(1), Li YP(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Virology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, and Key Laboratory 
of Tropical Disease Control of Ministry of Education, Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Guangzhou 510080, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, and Key Laboratory of 
Tropical Disease Control of Ministry of Education, Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Guangzhou 510080, China.
(3)Key Lab for Major Obstetric Diseases of Guangdong Province, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou 510150, China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guangzhou 
511430, China.
(5)The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Zhongshan School of 
Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510080, China.
(6)Institute of Human Virology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, and Key Laboratory 
of Tropical Disease Control of Ministry of Education, Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Guangzhou 510080, China; Program in Pathobiology, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital 
and Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangdong, China. 
Electronic address: lyiping@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Zika virus (ZIKV) is an Aedes mosquitoes-transmitted flavivirus, and its 
infection may cause severe neurological diseases. A genetically stable 
infectious clone is essential for ZIKV research, however the toxicity and 
instability of the viral cDNA in bacteria potentially due to its bacterial 
promoter activity are major challenges. Here, we constructed a full-length cDNA 
clone for isolate ZG01 by introducing non-coding changes T1865C/A1868G to reduce 
the bacterial promoter activity. Wild-type and recombinant ZG01 were highly 
attenuated in Vero cells, thus we serially passaged wild-type ZG01 through 
neonatal mice and Vero cells to generate high-titer virus, from which four 
mutations (4m, C2178T/G2913A/T4991C/T10561C) were identified. Addition of 4m 
greatly enhanced the infectivity, as ZG01_4m released ZIKV of 107.0-107.5 
plaque-forming unit (PFU)/ml in infected Vero and A549 cells. ZG01_4m resembled 
the infectivity of high-titer ZG01 in vitro and in vivo. Notably, ZG01_4m 
plasmid was genetically stable after multiple rounds of 
transformation-purification in bacteria. Using ZG01_4m, we identified a 
potential RNA-RNA interaction between 5'UTR and 3'UTR and demonstrated that the 
nucleotides involved were essential for ZIKV production. The genetically stable 
ZG01 cDNA clone provides a reliable tool for the study of this important virus, 
and the strategy used here is feasible for the development of reverse genetics 
systems for other ZIKV isolates and related flaviviruses.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2018.08.016
PMID: 30144463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e57086. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057086. Epub 2013 Feb 22.

New insights for native production of MSP1(19), the disulfide-rich C-terminal 
fragment from Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 1.

Planson AG(1), Guijarro JI, Chaffotte AF.

Author information:
(1)Unité de RMN des Biomolécules, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Malaria represents a major public health problem and an important cause of 
mortality and morbidity. The malaria parasites are becoming resistant to drugs 
used to treat the disease and still no efficient vaccine has been developed. One 
promising vaccine candidate is the merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1), which has 
been extensively investigated as a vaccine target. The surface protein MSP1 
plays an essential role in the erythrocyte invasion process and is an accessible 
target for the immune system. Antibodies to the carboxy-terminal region of the 
protein, named MSP119, can inhibit erythrocyte invasion and parasite growth. In 
order to develop an effective MSP119- based vaccine against malaria, production 
of an antigen that is recognized by protective antibodies is mandatory. To this 
aim, we propose a method to produce the disulfide-rich MSP119 in its native 
conformation based on its in vitro oxidative refolding. The native conformation 
of the renatured MSP119 is carefully established by immunochemical reactivity 
experiments, circular dichroism and NMR. MSP119 can successfully be refolded in 
vitro as an isolated protein or as a fusion with the maltose binding protein. 
The possibility to properly fold MSP119in vitro paves the way to new approaches 
for high titer production of native MSP119 using Escherichia coli as a host.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057086
PMCID: PMC3579805
PMID: 23451153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1586. Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun. 2011 Aug 1;67(Pt 8):903-6. 
doi: 10.1107/S1744309111021361. Epub 2011 Jul 19.

Cloning, expression, purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray 
diffraction studies of a 12R-LOX-chaperone complex.

Deb G(1), Boeshanes K, Idler WK, Ahvazi B.

Author information:
(1)X-ray Crystallography Facility, National Institute of Arthritis and 
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892, USA. gou5skm2001@yahoo.com

Lipoxygenases are a family of nonheme iron-containing dioxygenases. An 
Escherichia coli expression system producing the bacterial chaperones GroES and 
GroEL was engineered and successfully used to produce large quantities of 
recombinant human 12R-LOX (LOXR; MW 80.34 kDa; 701 amino-acid residues). The 
co-overproduction of the two chaperones with 12R-LOX resulted in increased 
solubility of 12R-LOX and allowed the purification of milligram amounts of 
active enzyme for structural studies by X-ray diffraction. The lipoxygenase 
protein was purified on an affinity column and a gel-filtration column with 
chaperone protein (MW 57.16 kDa). The LOXR-chaperone complex was crystallized 
with ligand by the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method using 1.5 M ammonium 
hydrogen phosphate as precipitant. The crystals belonged to the monoclinic 
system, space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 138.97, b = 266.11, c = 
152.26 Å, β = 101.07°. Based on the calculated Matthews coefficient 
(3.1 Å(3) Da(-1)), it is estimated that one molecule of LOXR complexed with two 
molecules of chaperone is present in the asymmetric unit of the crystal lattice. 
X-ray diffraction data were collected to 4 Å resolution using synchrotron 
radiation.

DOI: 10.1107/S1744309111021361
PMCID: PMC3151124
PMID: 21821891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1587. J Biol Chem. 2017 Sep 8;292(36):15121-15132. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M117.784561. Epub 
2017 Jul 24.

Cell-free production of a functional oligomeric form of a Chlamydia major 
outer-membrane protein (MOMP) for vaccine development.

He W(1), Felderman M(2), Evans AC(1), Geng J(1)(3), Homan D(1), Bourguet F(1), 
Fischer NO(1), Li Y(4), Lam KS(4), Noy A(1)(3), Xing L(5), Cheng RH(5), Rasley 
A(1), Blanchette CD(1), Kamrud K(2), Wang N(2), Gouvis H(2), Peterson TC(2), 
Hubby B(2), Coleman MA(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)From the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550.
(2)Synthetic Genomics Vaccine Inc., La Jolla, California 92037.
(3)School of Natural Sciences, University of California, Merced, California 
95343.
(4)the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine and.
(5)the Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California, 
Davis, California 95618.
(6)From the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, 
coleman16@llnl.gov.
(7)Radiation Oncology, School of Medicine, University of California Davis, 
Sacramento, California 95817, and.

Chlamydia is a prevalent sexually transmitted disease that infects more than 100 
million people worldwide. Although most individuals infected with Chlamydia 
trachomatis are initially asymptomatic, symptoms can arise if left undiagnosed. 
Long-term infection can result in debilitating conditions such as pelvic 
inflammatory disease, infertility, and blindness. Chlamydia infection, 
therefore, constitutes a significant public health threat, underscoring the need 
for a Chlamydia-specific vaccine. Chlamydia strains express a major 
outer-membrane protein (MOMP) that has been shown to be an effective vaccine 
antigen. However, approaches to produce a functional recombinant MOMP protein 
for vaccine development are limited by poor solubility, low yield, and protein 
misfolding. Here, we used an Escherichia coli-based cell-free system to express 
a MOMP protein from the mouse-specific species Chlamydia muridarum (MoPn-MOMP or 
mMOMP). The codon-optimized mMOMP gene was co-translated with Δ49apolipoprotein 
A1 (Δ49ApoA1), a truncated version of mouse ApoA1 in which the N-terminal 49 
amino acids were removed. This co-translation process produced mMOMP supported 
within a telodendrimer nanolipoprotein particle (mMOMP-tNLP). The cell-free 
expressed mMOMP-tNLPs contain mMOMP multimers similar to the native MOMP 
protein. This cell-free process produced on average 1.5 mg of purified, 
water-soluble mMOMP-tNLP complex in a 1-ml cell-free reaction. The mMOMP-tNLP 
particle also accommodated the co-localization of CpG oligodeoxynucleotide 1826, 
a single-stranded synthetic DNA adjuvant, eliciting an enhanced humoral immune 
response in vaccinated mice. Using our mMOMP-tNLP formulation, we demonstrate a 
unique approach to solubilizing and administering membrane-bound proteins for 
future vaccine development. This method can be applied to other previously 
difficult-to-obtain antigens while maintaining full functionality and 
immunogenicity.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M117.784561
PMCID: PMC5592686
PMID: 28739800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M. Felderman, K. Kamrud, N. Wang, H. Gouvis, T. 
C. Peterson, and B. Hubby are employed by Synthetic Genomics Vaccine Inc. 
Synthetic Genomics Vaccine Inc. (La Jolla, CA) provided funding under a Work for 
Others Agreement to Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. As a funding agency 
they had no role in study design or data collection and analysis for publication 
of the data. They do have a financial interest through the development of novel 
synthetic biology strategies for vaccine development. This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to all the JBC policies on sharing data and materials.


1588. Protein Expr Purif. 2008 May;59(1):47-54. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.12.015. Epub 
2008 Jan 26.

Expression and purification of neurolin immunoglobulin domain 2 from Carrassius 
auratus (goldfish) in Escherichia coli.

Drees C(1), Stürmer CA, Möller HM, Fritz G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Konstanz, 78457 Konstanz, Germany.

The immunoglobulin superfamily protein neurolin plays a central role during 
differentiation and development of retina ganglion cells in goldfish. As shown 
in earlier work, blockage of the second immunoglobulin domain (Ig2) of neurolin 
with domain-specific antibodies causes severe pathfinding defects of growing 
axons in the retina. Thus Ig2 of neurolin was identified as the critical domain 
for axon guidance. In the present study we have developed a protocol for 
expression and purification of neurolin-Ig2 suitable for structure analysis, 
functional studies and ligand identification. Neurolin was expressed in 
Rosettagami and Origami strains of Escherichia coli which is deficient in 
glutathione- and thioredoxin reductase facilitating proper formation of the 
disulfide bond in the cytoplasm. The protein was purified via an N-terminal 
His(6)-tag by Ni(2+) affinity and size exclusion chromatography. After 
purification the His(6)-tag was cut-off without loss of solubility. Analytical 
size exclusion chromatography revealed an apparent molecular mass for 
neurolin-Ig2 in agreement with a non-covalent homodimer. Analysis of CD and FTIR 
spectra gave a secondary structure content typical for Ig domains.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.12.015
PMID: 18316205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. Biochim Open. 2015 Nov 30;2:9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.biopen.2015.11.003. eCollection 
2016 Jun.

The peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity of the wheat cyclophilin, 
TaCypA-1, is essential for inducing thermotolerance in Escherichia coli.

Kaur G(1), Singh S(1), Dutta T(1), Kaur H(1), Singh B(1)(2), Pareek A(3), Singh 
P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, 143005, 
Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Plant Molecular Biology, University of Delhi South Campus, New 
Delhi, 110021, India.
(3)Stress Physiology and Molecular Biology Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, 
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, 110067, India.

Growth at high temperatures is one of the desired features for industrial 
applications of microbes, as it results in decrease in contamination and 
enhanced solubility of certain substrates. In this study, it is demonstrated 
that heterologous expression of a wheat cyclophilin, TaCypA-1, confers 
thermotolerance to Escherichia coli. The TaCypA-1 possesses peptidyl-prolyl 
cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) activity that catalyses cis to trans isomerization 
of the peptidyl prolyl bonds, a rate limiting step in protein folding. 
Expression of deleted mutants of TaCypA-1, that lacked PPIase activity, resulted 
in abrogation of thermotolerance, providing the first evidence that this 
activity plays a key role in stress tolerance of cells and can be exploited for 
industrial applications. Further, we also demonstrate that TaCypA-1 interacts 
with calmodulin (CaM), and the CaM-binding domain is localized to amino acid 
residues 51-71 in the N-terminus region.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopen.2015.11.003
PMCID: PMC5889472
PMID: 29632833


1590. Microb Biotechnol. 2013 Nov;6(6):694-707. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.12073. Epub 
2013 Aug 14.

Synthesis of ω-hydroxy dodecanoic acid based on an engineered CYP153A fusion 
construct.

Scheps D(1), Honda Malca S, Richter SM, Marisch K, Nestl BM, Hauer B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Technical Biochemistry, University of Stuttgart, Allmandring 31, 
70569, Stuttgart, Germany.

A bacterial P450 monooxygenase-based whole cell biocatalyst using Escherichia 
coli has been applied in the production of ω-hydroxy dodecanoic acid from 
dodecanoic acid (C12-FA) or the corresponding methyl ester. We have constructed 
and purified a chimeric protein where the fusion of the monooxygenase CYP153A 
from Marinobacter aquaeloei to the reductase domain of P450 BM3 from Bacillus 
megaterium ensures optimal protein expression and efficient electron coupling. 
The chimera was demonstrated to be functional and three times more efficient 
than other sets of redox components evaluated. The established fusion protein 
(CYP153AM. aq. -CPR) was used for the hydroxylation of C12-FA in in vivo 
studies. These experiments yielded 1.2 g l(-1) ω-hydroxy dodecanoic from 
10 g l(-1) C12-FA with high regioselectivity (> 95%) for the terminal position. 
As a second strategy, we utilized C12-FA methyl ester as substrate in a 
two-phase system (5:1 aqueous/organic phase) configuration to overcome low 
substrate solubility and product toxicity by continuous extraction. The 
biocatalytic system was further improved with the coexpression of an additional 
outer membrane transport system (AlkL) to increase the substrate transfer into 
the cell, resulting in the production of 4 g l(-1) ω-hydroxy dodecanoic acid. We 
further summarized the most important aspects of the whole-cell process and 
thereupon discuss the limits of the applied oxygenation reactions referring to 
hydrogen peroxide, acetate and P450 concentrations that impact the efficiency of 
the production host negatively.

© 2013 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
and Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.12073
PMCID: PMC3815936
PMID: 23941649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Mol Immunol. 2006 Mar;43(7):1040-6. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2005.07.007. Epub 2005 
Aug 19.

Structures and homology modeling of chicken major histocompatibility complex 
protein class I (BF2 and beta2m).

Yan RQ(1), Li XS, Yang TY, Xia C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
China Agricultural University, Beijing 100094, China.

In order to elucidate the two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) 
structures of chicken major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I protein 
(BF2 and beta2m) and further reconstruct their complex identifying the 
virus-derived antigenic peptides, the mature protein of BF2 and beta2m genes 
were expressed solubility in pMAL-p2X/Escherichia coli. TB1 system. The 
expressed MBP-BF2- and MBP-beta2m-fusion proteins were purified, and cleaved by 
the factor Xa protease. Subsequently, the monomers were further separated, and 
the purified MBP-BF2, -beta2m, and MBP were analyzed by circular dichroism (CD) 
spectrum. The contents of alpha-helix, beta-sheet, turn, and random coil in BF2 
protein were 72, 102, 70, and 90 amino acids (aa), respectively. The beta2m 
proteins displayed a typical beta-sheet and the contents of alpha-helix, 
beta-sheet, turn, and random coil were 0, 46, 30, and 22 aa, respectively. 
Homology modeling of BF2 and beta2m proteins were similar as the 3D structure of 
human MHC class I (HLA-A2). The results showed that pMAL-p2X expression and 
purification system could be used to obtain the right conformational BF2 and 
beta2m proteins, and the 2D and 3D structures of BF2 and beta2m were revealed to 
be similar to human's. The recombinant BF2 and beta2m-based proteins might be a 
powerful tool for further detecting antigenic peptides.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2005.07.007
PMID: 16112197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2013 Nov;110(11):2846-55. doi: 10.1002/bit.24962. Epub 2013 
Jun 4.

Production of non-proteinogenic amino acids from α-keto acid precursors with 
recombinant Corynebacterium glutamicum.

Kim JY(1), Lee YA, Wittmann C, Park JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Engineering, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, 
120-750, Republic of Korea.

In the present work, Corynebacterium glutamicum was metabolically engineered for 
the enantioselective synthesis of non-proteinogenic amino acids as valuable 
building blocks for pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals. The novel bio-catalytic 
activity of C. glutamicum was obtained by heterologous expression of the 
branched chain aminotransferase IlvE from Escherichia coli. Upon this 
modification, the recombinant cells converted the α-keto acid precursor 
2-(3-hydroxy-1-adamantyl)-2-oxoethanoic acid (HOAE) into the corresponding amino 
acid 2-(3-hydroxy-1-adamantyl)-(2S)-amino ethanoic acid (HAAE). Similarly, also 
L-tert-leucine could be obtained from trimethyl pyruvate indicating a broader 
applicability of the novel strategy. In both cases, the amino group donor 
glutamate was supplied from the endogenous metabolism of the recombinant 
producer. Hereby, the uptake of the precursor and secretion of the product was 
supported by an enhanced cell permeability through treatment of ethambutol, 
which inhibits arabinosyl transferases involved in cell wall biosynthesis. The 
excretion of HAAE into the reaction medium was linked to the secretion of 
glutamate, indicating a similar mechanism for the export of both compounds. On 
the other hand, the efflux of L-tert-leucine appeared to be driven by active 
transport. Subsequent bioprocess engineering enabled HAAE and L-tert-leucine to 
be produced at a rate of 0.21 and 0.42 mmol (g dry cells)⁻¹  h⁻¹, respectively 
up to a final product titer of 40 mM. Beyond the given examples, integrated 
metabolic and cell envelop engineering might extend the production of a variety 
of other non-proteinogenic amino acids as well as chiral amines by C. 
glutamicum.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.24962
PMID: 23737264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. Protein Expr Purif. 2015 Mar;107:83-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.010. Epub 2014 
Nov 21.

Cloning, expression and purification of isoflavone-2'-hydroxylase from 
Astragalus membranaceus Bge. Var. mongolicus (Bge.) Hsiao.

Chen J(1), Yuan H(2), Zhang L(3), Pan H(4), Xu R(5), Zhong Y(6), Chen J(7), Nan 
P(8).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological 
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China. 
Electronic address: sunnytt91@gmail.com.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological 
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China. 
Electronic address: 09210700078@fudan.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Microbial Engineering, School of Life 
Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China. Electronic address: 
linnezhang@gmail.com.
(4)Plant Biology Division, Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation, 2510 Sam Noble 
Parkway, Ardmore, OK 73401, USA. Electronic address: hypan@126.com.
(5)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological 
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China. 
Electronic address: ryxu822@fudan.edu.cn.
(6)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological 
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China; 
Institute of Biodiversity Science and Geobiology, Tibet University, Lhasa 
850000, China. Electronic address: yangzhong@fudan.edu.cn.
(7)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological 
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China. 
Electronic address: jkchen@fudan.edu.cn.
(8)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological 
Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China. 
Electronic address: nanpeng@fudan.edu.cn.

Plant cytochrome P450 enzymes play vital roles in the biosynthesis of plant 
secondary metabolites, including phenylpropanoids and phytoalexins. 
Isoflavone-2'-hydroxylase (AmI2'H) from Astragalus membranaceus Bge. Var. 
mongolicus (Bge.) Hsiao is a membrane protein and an eukaryotic cytochrome P450 
enzyme involved in isoflavonoid biosynthesis. We cloned the AmI2'H gene by 
employing RACE methods and modified the gene sequence to facilitate protein 
expression and increase protein solubility. Two vectors, pET-28a(+) and pCW 
ori(+), were used to express AmI2'H in Escherichia coli. The expression 
efficiency and purity of target protein were analyzed and demonstrated that 
pET-28a(+) vector containing the AmI2'H gene could produce larger amounts of 
target proteins with higher purity than pCWori(+). The purified proteins were 
identified as AmI2'H by LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis and their proper folding was 
assessed by CO difference spectrum.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2014.11.010
PMID: 25462811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1594. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2010 Apr;23(4):229-41. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzp074. Epub 
2009 Nov 27.

Knowledge-based design of reagentless fluorescent biosensors from a designed 
ankyrin repeat protein.

Brient-Litzler E(1), Plückthun A, Bedouelle H.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Molecular Prevention and Therapy of Human Diseases (CNRS URA3012), 
Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Designed ankyrin repeat proteins (DARPins) can be selected from combinatorial 
libraries to bind any target antigen. They show high levels of recombinant 
expression, solubility and stability, and contain no cysteine residue. The 
possibility of obtaining, from any DARPin and at high yields, fluorescent 
conjugates which respond to the binding of the antigen by a variation of 
fluorescence, would have numerous applications in micro- and nano-analytical 
sciences. This possibility was explored with Off7, a DARPin directed against the 
maltose binding protein (MalE) from Escherichia coli, with known crystal 
structure of the complex. Eight residues of Off7, whose solvent accessible 
surface area varies on association with the antigen but which are not in direct 
contact with the antigen, were individually mutated into cysteine and then 
chemically coupled with a fluorophore. The conjugates were ranked according to 
their relative sensitivities. All of them showed an increase in their 
fluorescence intensity on antigen binding by >1.7-fold. The best conjugate 
retained the same affinity as the parental DARPin. Its signal increased linearly 
and specifically with the concentration of antigen, up to 15-fold in buffer and 
3-fold in serum when fully saturated, the difference being mainly due to the 
absorption of light by serum. Its lower limit of detection was equal to 0.3 nM 
with a standard spectrofluorometer. Titrations with potassium iodide indicated 
that the fluorescence variation was due to a shielding of the fluorescent group 
from the solvent by the antigen. These results suggest rules for the design of 
reagentless fluorescent biosensors from any DARPin.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzp074
PMID: 19945965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Front Microbiol. 2021 Jan 12;11:595080. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.595080. 
eCollection 2020.

Ac-HSP20 Is Associated With the Infectivity and Encystation of Acanthamoeba 
castellanii.

Wang N(1), Sun H(1), Liu D(1), Jiang X(1), Zheng M(1), Zhu W(1), Liu Q(2), Zheng 
W(3), Feng X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathogenic Biology, Jilin Medical University, Jilin City, 
China.
(2)School of Life Sciences and Engineering, Foshan University, Foshan, China.
(3)Department of Microsurgery, Jilin City Central Hospital, Jilin City, China.

Acanthamoeba castellanii is a pathogenic and opportunistic free-living amoeba 
that causes Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK) and granulomatous amebic encephalitis 
(GAE) in immunocompromised individuals. The biological and pathogenic 
characterizations behind this opportunistic protozoan is not fully understood. 
This study aimed to determine the biological functions of heat shock protein 
(HSP)-20 of A. castellanii (Ac-HSP20) involved in the maintenance of life cycle 
and the infectivity of A. castellanii. Immunoscreening A. castellanii cDNA 
library with A. castellanii infected rabbit sera identified three positive 
clones, one of them was a putative heat shock protein (Ac-HSP20). The 
recombinant 23 kDa Ac-HSP20 protein (rAc-HSP20) was successfully expressed in 
Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) and purified using metal affinity chromatography. 
The rabbits immunized with rAc-HSP20 produced high titer antibody (1:25,600). 
Immunolocalization with the antibody identified the expression of native 
Ac-HSP20 on the surface of both A. castellanii trophozoites and cysts. Further, 
Western blot with antibody identified that the expression of native Ac-HSP20 was 
7.5 times higher in cysts than in trophozoites. Blocking Ac-HSP20 on the 
membrane of trophozoites with specific antibody or silencing Ac-hsp20 gene 
transcription by siRNA inhibited their transformation into cysts at the early 
stage but returned to normal at the late stage by stimulating the transcription 
of Ac-hsp20. Incubation of trophozoites with anti-Ac-HSP20 IgG increased 
macrophage-involved phagocytosis to the protozoa and inhibited trophozoite 
infectivity on the cornea of rabbits compared with that without antibody. Our 
study provides that Ac-HSP20 is a surface antigen involved in the encystation 
and infectivity of A. castellanii and thus an important target for vaccine and 
drug development.

Copyright © 2021 Wang, Sun, Liu, Jiang, Zheng, Zhu, Liu, Zheng and Feng.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.595080
PMCID: PMC7835678
PMID: 33510719

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


1596. Infect Genet Evol. 2020 Nov;85:104517. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104517. Epub 
2020 Sep 1.

Genome based evolutionary lineage of SARS-CoV-2 towards the development of novel 
chimeric vaccine.

Akhand MRN(1), Azim KF(2), Hoque SF(3), Moli MA(3), Joy BD(1), Akter H(4), Afif 
IK(5), Ahmed N(4), Hasan M(6).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh; Department of Biochemistry and Chemistry, 
Sylhet Agricultural University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh.
(2)Faculty of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh; Department of Microbial Biotechnology, 
Sylhet Agricultural University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh.
(3)Faculty of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh; Department of Pharmaceuticals and 
Industrial Biotechnology, Sylhet Agricultural University, Sylhet 3100, 
Bangladesh.
(4)Faculty of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Noakhali Science and 
Technology University, Noakhali, Bangladesh.
(6)Faculty of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Sylhet Agricultural 
University, Sylhet, 3100, Bangladesh; Department of Pharmaceuticals and 
Industrial Biotechnology, Sylhet Agricultural University, Sylhet 3100, 
Bangladesh. Electronic address: mhasan.pib@sau.ac.bd.

The present study aimed to predict a novel chimeric vaccine by simultaneously 
targeting four major structural proteins via the establishment of ancestral 
relationship among different strains of coronaviruses. Conserved regions from 
the homologous protein sets of spike glycoprotein, membrane protein, envelope 
protein and nucleocapsid protein were identified through multiple sequence 
alignment. The phylogeny analyses of whole genome stated that four proteins 
reflected the close ancestral relation of SARS-CoV-2 to SARS-COV-1 and bat 
coronavirus. Numerous immunogenic epitopes (both T cell and B cell) were 
generated from the common fragments which were further ranked on the basis of 
antigenicity, transmembrane topology, conservancy level, toxicity and 
allergenicity pattern and population coverage analysis. Top putative epitopes 
were combined with appropriate adjuvants and linkers to construct a novel 
multiepitope subunit vaccine against COVID-19. The designed constructs were 
characterized based on physicochemical properties, allergenicity, antigenicity 
and solubility which revealed the superiority of construct V3 in terms safety 
and efficacy. Essential molecular dynamics and normal mode analysis confirmed 
minimal deformability of the refined model at molecular level. In addition, 
disulfide engineering was investigated to accelerate the stability of the 
protein. Molecular docking study ensured high binding affinity between construct 
V3 and HLA cells, as well as with different host receptors. Microbial expression 
and translational efficacy of the constructs were checked using pET28a(+) vector 
of E. coli strain K12. However, the in vivo and in vitro validation of suggested 
vaccine molecule might be ensured with wet lab trials using model animals for 
the implementation of the presented data.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104517
PMCID: PMC7462568
PMID: 32882432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare that they have no conflict of 
interests.


1597. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2006 Aug;25(4):181-92. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2006.25.181.

Optimizing the generation of recombinant single-chain antibodies against 
placental alkaline phosphatase.

Sheikholvaezin A(1), Sandström P, Eriksson D, Norgren N, Riklund K, Stigbrand T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

Recombinant technologies to engineer ordinary hybridoma monoclonal antibodies 
(MAbs) to single-chain fragment variable (scFv) may cause loss of antibody 
affinity, increased tendency to aggregate, increased temperature sensitivity, 
and low yield of active protein. In the present investigation, the 
well-characterized MAb H7 against placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), used as 
a model antibody, was engineered to improve solubility and stability of scFv 
with retained high affinity. The original procedure to generate single-chain 
antibodies with a 10-amino acid linker between VH and VL yielded an almost 
insoluble product. By site-directed mutagenesis, four selective sequence 
substitutions were made in the VL fragment and one in the VH fragment to improve 
solubility. The importance of the linker length was investigated, and a 25/30 
amino acid linker was found to improve solubility. In order to further increase 
the stability of the single-chain antibody, an additional covalent -S-S- bond 
was introduced between amino acid 100 in the VL fragment and amino acid 44 in 
the VH region, to make a single-chain disulphide stabilized variable fragment 
(scdsFv). Altogether five different antibody constructs were produced and 
compared in terms of solubility, stability, affinity, and production properties. 
Immunospecificity was tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
against the target antigen, temperature sensitivity by exposing the purified 
scFv to higher temperatures. All the new constructs retained almost equal 
activity and high affinity for their target antigen, placental alkaline 
phosphatase (PLAP), compared to the intact MAb H7, up to +42 degrees C as 
evaluated by ELISA. The overall affinity K(A) > 10(9) (M(1)) of the new 
antibodies could be maintained in the same order of magnitude as the original 
one (H7), when evaluated by Biacore technology. The best final single-chain 
antibody was obtained by performing the specific site-directed mutations and 
introducing a linker of 30 amino acids, but not by additional stabilizing 
disulphide bonds. The yield of the final antibody was improved approximately 
10-fold by the modifications. This antibody could easily be expressed in a 
bacterial system using the PET-32a TrxA vector and the Escherichia coli strain 
BL21 Origami B (DE3). Purified antibody, which could be kept at concentrations 
up to 0.8 mg/mL, was obtained, which is sufficient for clinical testing of 
therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2006.25.181
PMID: 16934014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2004 Oct;139(2):175-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpb.2004.08.006.

Molecular chaperone function of the Rana catesbeiana small heat shock protein, 
hsp30.

Kaldis A(1), Atkinson BG, Heikkila JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, N2L 3G1.

Eukaryotic small heat shock proteins (shps) act as molecular chaperones by 
binding to denaturing proteins, preventing their heat-induced aggregation and 
maintaining their solubility until they can be refolded back to their normal 
state by other chaperones. In this study we report on the functional 
characterization of a developmentally regulated shsp, hsp30, from the American 
bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana. An expression vector containing the open reading 
frame of the hsp30 gene was expressed in Escherichia coli. Purified recombinant 
hsp30 was recovered as multimeric complexes and was composed of a mixture of 
alpha-helical and beta-sheet-like structures as determined by circular dichroism 
analysis. Hsp30 displayed chaperone activity since it inhibited heat-induced 
aggregation of citrate synthase. Furthermore hsp30 maintained heat-treated 
luciferase in a folding competent state. For example, heat denatured luciferase 
when microinjected into Xenopus oocytes did not regain enzyme activity whereas 
luciferase heat denatured with hsp30 regained 100% enzyme activity. Finally, 
hsp30 protected the DNA restriction endonuclease, PstI, from heat inactivation. 
PstI incubated alone at 42 degrees C lost its enzymatic function after 1 h 
whereas PstI supplemented with hsp30 accurately digested plasmid DNA after 4 h 
at the elevated temperature. These results clearly indicate a molecular 
chaperone role for R. catesbeiana hsp30.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2004.08.006
PMID: 15528166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Int J Biol Macromol. 2017 Oct;103:275-285. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.05.035. 
Epub 2017 May 10.

Development of a human epidermal growth factor derivative with EGFR-blocking and 
depleted biological activities: A comparative in vitro study using EGFR-positive 
breast cancer cells.

Mehrabi M(1), Mansouri K(2), Soleymani B(1), Hoseinkhani Z(1), Shahlaie M(3), 
Khodarahmi R(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran. Electronic address: kmansouri@kums.ac.ir.
(3)Nano drug delivery research Center,Faculty of Pharmacy, Kermanshah University 
of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(4)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran; Department of Pharmacognosy and Biotechnology, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. 
Electronic address: rkhodarahmi@mbrc.ac.ir.

Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a local growth factor that stimulates cell 
growth, proliferation, and differentiation by binding to its receptor EGFR. EGF 
and EGFR are involved in many aspects of the development of carcinomas. Because 
EGFR has been found to be over-expressed in many tumors of epithelial origin, it 
is a potential target for antitumor therapy. In this study we designed a mutated 
form of hEGF (mEGF) with a deletion of four amino acids residues (Gln43, Tyr44, 
Arg45 and Asp46) in order to show importance of Leu spatial location for EGFR 
binding/activation. Expression vector pET32a+ and E. Coli, strain Rosetta-gami B 
(DE3) were used to enhance solubility of the recombinant protein with yielding 
approximately 10mg/l of cell culture. The purified cleaved hEGF as well as 
non-cleaved fusion protein were biologically active, which was confirmed by 
their equal ability to stimulate proliferation of MCF7 cells. The mEGF showed 
specificity and high affinity for EGFR binding, however binding affinity of mEGF 
for EGFR was reduced about 11.5 fold compared with that of hEGF. The mEGF effect 
on the MCF7 cell proliferation had a relatively different outcome; mEGF 
simulated differential cell growth in a dose dependent manner. On the other 
hand, in MDA-MB468 cells, hEGF and mEGF induced growth inhibition, which was 
much more severe for hEGF than that of mEGF. Also, hEGF strongly induced the 
phosphorylation of EGF receptor in MDA-MB468 cells while mEGF induced poor EGFR 
phosphorylation. The same observations were also made for migration of cancer 
cells, especially induction of MDA-MB468 migration by mEGF was significantly 
lower than that of hEGF, suggesting a connection between tyrosine 
phosphorylation of EGFR and cell migration. Docking analysis revealed that the 
binding affinity and the buried surface area of mEGF to EGFR complex are lower 
than those of hEGF/EGFR. Although theoretical studies confirmed reduction in 
mEGF-EGFR binding affinity, the data of the present study indicate that mEGF is 
a potential EGFR blocker but may highlight it as excellent delivery agent of 
protein/non-protein toxins as well as for α-, β-, γ-emitting 
radio-immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.05.035
PMID: 28501600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. BMC Biotechnol. 2016 Feb 19;16:19. doi: 10.1186/s12896-016-0248-y.

Enhancement of D-lactic acid production from a mixed glucose and xylose 
substrate by the Escherichia coli strain JH15 devoid of the glucose effect.

Lu H(1), Zhao X(2), Wang Y(3), Ding X(4), Wang J(5), Garza E(6), Manow R(7), 
Iverson A(8)(9), Zhou S(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial Fermentation, 
Key Laboratory of Fermentation Engineering (Ministry of Education), College of 
Bioengineering, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, 430068, P. R. China. 
183459815@qq.com.
(2)Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial Fermentation, 
Key Laboratory of Fermentation Engineering (Ministry of Education), College of 
Bioengineering, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, 430068, P. R. China. 
elaine82_82@hotmail.com.
(3)Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial Fermentation, 
Key Laboratory of Fermentation Engineering (Ministry of Education), College of 
Bioengineering, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, 430068, P. R. China. 
wyzzju@126.com.
(4)Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial Fermentation, 
Key Laboratory of Fermentation Engineering (Ministry of Education), College of 
Bioengineering, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, 430068, P. R. China. 
858709213@qq.com.
(5)Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial Fermentation, 
Key Laboratory of Fermentation Engineering (Ministry of Education), College of 
Bioengineering, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, 430068, P. R. China. 
wangjinhua@mail.hbut.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, 
60115, USA. egarza@niu.edu.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, 
60115, USA. usa300@live.com.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, 
60115, USA. aiverson@harpercollege.edu.
(9)William Rainey Harper College, Palatine, IL, 60142, USA. 
aiverson@harpercollege.edu.
(10)Hubei Provincial Cooperative Innovation Center of Industrial Fermentation, 
Key Laboratory of Fermentation Engineering (Ministry of Education), College of 
Bioengineering, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, 430068, P. R. China. 
szhou@niu.edu.
(11)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, 
60115, USA. szhou@niu.edu.

BACKGROUND: A thermal tolerant stereo-complex poly-lactic acid (SC-PLA) can be 
made by mixing Poly-D-lactic acid (PDLA) and poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) at a 
defined ratio. This environmentally friendly biodegradable polymer could replace 
traditional recalcitrant petroleum-based plastics. To achieve this goal, 
however, it is imperative to produce optically pure lactic acid isomers using a 
cost-effective substrate such as cellulosic biomass. The roadblock of this 
process is that: 1) xylose derived from cellulosic biomass is un-fermentable by 
most lactic acid bacteria; 2) the glucose effect results in delayed and 
incomplete xylose fermentation. An alternative strain devoid of the glucose 
effect is needed to co-utilize both glucose and xylose for improved D-lactic 
acid production using a cellulosic biomass substrate.
RESULTS: A previously engineered L-lactic acid Escherichia coli strain, WL204 
(ΔfrdBC ΔldhA ΔackA ΔpflB ΔpdhR ::pflBp6-acEF-lpd ΔmgsA ΔadhE, ΔldhA::ldhL), was 
reengineered for production of D-lactic acid, by replacing the recombinant 
L-lactate dehydrogenase gene (ldhL) with a D-lactate dehydrogenase gene (ldhA). 
The glucose effect (catabolite repression) of the resulting strain, JH13, was 
eliminated by deletion of the ptsG gene which encodes for IIBC(glc) (a PTS 
enzyme for glucose transport). The derived strain, JH14, was metabolically 
evolved through serial transfers in screw-cap tubes containing glucose. The 
evolved strain, JH15, regained improved anaerobic cell growth using glucose. In 
fermentations using a mixture of glucose (50 g L(-1)) and xylose (50 g L(-1)), 
JH15 co-utilized both glucose and xylose, achieving an average sugar consumption 
rate of 1.04 g L(-1)h(-1), a D-lactic acid titer of 83 g L(-1), and a 
productivity of 0.86 g L(-1) h(-1). This result represents a 46 % improved sugar 
consumption rate, a 26 % increased D-lactic acid titer, and a 48 % enhanced 
productivity, compared to that achieved by JH13.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated that JH15 has the potential for 
fermentative production of D-lactic acid using cellulosic biomass derived 
substrates, which contain a mixture of C6 and C5 sugars.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-016-0248-y
PMCID: PMC4759849
PMID: 26895857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. Nucleic Acids Res. 2005 Jul 8;33(12):3751-62. doi: 10.1093/nar/gki692. Print 
2005.

Heterologous gene expression using self-assembled supra-molecules with high 
affinity for HSP70 chaperone.

Ahn JY(1), Choi H, Kim YH, Han KY, Park JS, Han SS, Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Korea University Anam-Dong 
5-1, Sungbuk-Ku, Seoul 136-713, South Korea.

Contrary to the results of direct expression, various human proteins (ferritin 
light-chain, epithermal growth factor, interleukin-2, prepro-ghrelin, deletion 
mutants of glutamate decarboxylase and arginine deiminase, and mini-proinsulin) 
were all soluble in Escherichia coli cytoplasm when expressed with the 
N-terminus fusion of ferritin heavy-chain (FTN-H). Through systematic 
investigations, we have found that a specific peptide motif within FTN-H has a 
high affinity to HSP70 chaperone DnaK, and that the peptide motif was composed 
of a hydrophobic core of three residues (Ile, Phe and Leu) and two flanking 
regions enriched with polar residues (Gly, Gln and Arg). It was also observed 
that all the recombinant proteins expressed with the fusion of FTN-H formed 
spherical nanoparticles with diameters of 10-15 nm, as confirmed by the 
transmission electron microscopy image. The protein nanoparticles are 
non-covalently cross-linked supra-molecules formed by the self-assembly function 
of FTN-H. Upon the formation of the supra-molecule, its size is likely to be 
limited by the assembly properties of FTN-H, thereby keeping the self-assembled 
particles soluble. This study reports on the dual function of FTN-H for fusion 
expression and solubility enhancement of heterologous proteins: (i) 
high-affinity interaction with DnaK and (ii) formation of self-assembled 
supra-molecules with limited and constant sizes, thereby avoiding the 
undesirable formation of insoluble macro-aggregates of heterologous proteins.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gki692
PMCID: PMC1174908
PMID: 16006621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 May;28(5):2205-12. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-012-1026-1. Epub 2012 Feb 19.

Heterologous expression and characterization of Bacillus coagulans L-arabinose 
isomerase.

Zhou X(1), Wu JC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemical and Engineering Sciences, Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research (A STAR), 1 Pesek Road, Jurong Island 627833, Singapore.

Bacillus coagulans has been of great commercial interest over the past decade 
owing to its strong ability of producing optical pure L: -lactic acid from both 
hexose and pentose sugars including L: -arabinose with high yield, titer and 
productivity under thermophilic conditions. The L: -arabinose isomerase (L-AI) 
from Bacillus coagulans was heterologously over-expressed in Escherichia coli. 
The open reading frame of the L-AI has 1,422 nucleotides encoding a protein with 
474 amino acid residues. The recombinant L-AI was purified to homogeneity by 
one-step His-tag affinity chromatography. The molecular mass of the enzyme was 
estimated to be 56 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The enzyme was most active at 70°C and pH 
7.0. The metal ion Mn(2+) was shown to be the best activator for enzymatic 
activity and thermostability. The enzyme showed higher activity at acidic pH 
than at alkaline pH. The kinetic studies showed that the K (m), V (max) and k 
(cat)/K (m) for the conversion of L: -arabinose were 106 mM, 84 U/mg and 34.5 
mM(-1)min(-1), respectively. The equilibrium ratio of L: -arabinose to L: 
-ribulose was 78:22 under optimal conditions. L: -ribulose (97 g/L) was obtained 
from 500 g/l of L: -arabinose catalyzed by the enzyme (8.3 U/mL) under the 
optimal conditions within 1.5 h, giving at a substrate conversion of 19.4% and a 
production rate of 65 g L(-1) h(-1).

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-012-1026-1
PMID: 22806043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Mol Biol Evol. 2016 Nov;33(11):2960-2975. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msw182. Epub 2016 
Aug 25.

Molecular Determinants of Mutant Phenotypes, Inferred from Saturation 
Mutagenesis Data.

Tripathi A(1), Gupta K(1), Khare S(1), Jain PC(1), Patel S(1), Kumar P(1), 
Pulianmackal AJ(1), Aghera N(1), Varadarajan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India.
(2)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India 
Jawaharlal Nehru Center for Advanced Scientific Research, Bangalore, India 
varadar@mbu.iisc.ernet.in.

Understanding how mutations affect protein activity and organismal fitness is a 
major challenge. We used saturation mutagenesis combined with deep sequencing to 
determine mutational sensitivity scores for 1,664 single-site mutants of the 101 
residue Escherichia coli cytotoxin, CcdB at seven different expression levels. 
Active-site residues could be distinguished from buried ones, based on their 
differential tolerance to aliphatic and charged amino acid substitutions. At 
nonactive-site positions, the average mutational tolerance correlated better 
with depth from the protein surface than with accessibility. Remarkably, similar 
results were observed for two other small proteins, PDZ domain (PSD95pdz3) and 
IgG-binding domain of protein G (GB1). Mutational sensitivity data obtained with 
CcdB were used to derive a procedure for predicting functional effects of 
mutations. Results compared favorably with those of two widely used 
computational predictors. In vitro characterization of 80 single, nonactive-site 
mutants of CcdB showed that activity in vivo correlates moderately with thermal 
stability and solubility. The inability to refold reversibly, as well as a 
decreased folding rate in vitro, is associated with decreased activity in vivo. 
Upon probing the effect of modulating expression of various proteases and 
chaperones on mutant phenotypes, most deleterious mutants showed an increased in 
vivo activity and solubility only upon over-expression of either Trigger factor 
or SecB ATP-independent chaperones. Collectively, these data suggest that 
folding kinetics rather than protein stability is the primary determinant of 
activity in vivo This study enhances our understanding of how mutations affect 
phenotype, as well as the ability to predict fitness effects of point mutations.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msw182
PMCID: PMC5062330
PMID: 27563054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. Open Microbiol J. 2016 May 20;10:97-112. doi: 10.2174/1874285801610010097. 
eCollection 2016.

In Silico Design of a Chimeric Protein Containing Antigenic Fragments of 
Helicobacter pylori; A Bioinformatic Approach.

Mohammad N(1), Karsabet MT(1), Amani J(2), Ardjmand A(3), Zadeh MR(4), Gholi 
MK(5), Saffari M(1), Ghasemi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Kashan 
University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, Iran.
(2)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Physiology Research Center, Kashan University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, 
Iran.
(4)Gastroenterology Department, Beheshti Hospital, Kashan University of Medical 
Sciences, Kashan, Iran.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Qom 
University of Medical Sciences, Qom, Iran.

Helicobacter pylori is a global health problem which has encouraged scientists 
to find new ways to diagnose, immunize and eradicate the H. pylori infection. In 
silico studies are a promising approach to design new chimeric antigen having 
the immunogenic potential of several antigens. In order to obtain such benefit 
in H. pylori vaccine study, a chimeric gene containing four fragments of FliD 
sequence (1-600 bp), UreB (327-334 bp),VacA (744-805 bp) and CagL(51-100 bp) 
which have a high density of B- and T-cell epitopes was designed. The secondary 
and tertiary structures of the chimeric protein and other properties such as 
stability, solubility and antigenicity were analyzed. The in silico results 
showed that after optimizing for the purpose of expression in Escherichia coli 
BL21, the solubility and antigenicity of the construct fragments were highly 
retained. Most regions of the chimeric protein were found to have a high 
antigenic propensity and surface accessibility. These results would be useful in 
animal model application and accounted for the development of an epitope-based 
vaccine against the H. pylori.

DOI: 10.2174/1874285801610010097
PMCID: PMC4899534
PMID: 27335622


1605. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2020 Jul 17;14:2797-2807. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S259937. 
eCollection 2020.

A Synthetic Peptide 2Abz(23)S(29) Reduces Bacterial Titer and Induces 
Pro-Inflammatory Cytokines in a Murine Model of Urinary Tract Infection.

Moazzezy N(1), Asadi Karam MR(1), Rafati S(2), Bouzari S(1), Oloomi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Department, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Immunotherapy and Leishmania Vaccine Research Department, Pasteur Institute 
of Iran, Tehran, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: A urinary tract infection (UTI), which is often caused by 
uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) strains, affects many people worldwide annually. 
UPEC causes the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by the bladder 
epithelial cells; however, it has been proven that the UPEC can inhibit the 
early activation of the innate immune system.
METHODS: This study aimed to examine the antibacterial and immunomodulatory 
effects of different doses of truncated alpha-defensins (human neutrophil 
peptide (HNP)-1) analog 2Abz23S29 on the mouse UTI model. Experimentally 
uropathogenic E. coli CFT073-infected mice were treated with low-dose 2Abz23S29 
(250µg/mL), high-dose 2Abz23S29 (750µg/mL), ciprofloxacin (cip) (800µg/mL), or 
high-dose 2Abz23S29plus cip once a day 24 h post-infection. The 2Abz23S29 and 
cip treatment were given for two consecutive days.
RESULTS: The in vivo results showed that fewer UPEC were recovered from the 
bladders of mice treated transurethrally with 2Abz23S29. Moreover, low-dose 
2Abz23S29 significantly decreased the level of the interleukin-6 (IL-6), whereas 
high-dose 2Abz23S29 increased pro-inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, 
macrophage inflammatory protein/2 (MIP/2), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and 
interleukin-1β (IL-1β) in infected bladders of mice. Besides, the levels of 
cytokines IL-6 and MIP/2 in infected mice treated with a combination of 
high-dose 2Abz23S29 and cip were significantly higher than the untreated mice. 
In contrast, CFT073-infected mice treated with a combination of high-dose 
2Abz23S29 and cip showed no changes in cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β levels, 
indicating that ciprofloxacin may play an anti-inflammatory role.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, apart from the direct antibacterial role of 2Abz23S29, 
our data illustrated that 2Abz23S29 modulates pro-inflammatory cytokine 
production of bladder in a dose-dependent manner, which has implications for the 
development of new anti-infective agents.

© 2020 Moazzezy et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S259937
PMCID: PMC7381768
PMID: 32764879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


1606. Anal Biochem. 2000 Jan 1;277(1):67-73. doi: 10.1006/abio.1999.4385.

Generation of an AraC-araBAD promoter-regulated T7 expression system.

Wycuff DR(1), Matthews KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Rice University, Houston, Texas, 77251-1892, USA.

An alternative and facile delivery system for T7 RNA polymerase has been devised 
and constructed. T7 gene 1 has been placed under control of the araBAD promoter 
element regulated by the AraC protein. Cotransformation of the resultant 
plasmid, pTara, with one containing a target gene under T7 promoter-regulated 
expression potentially allows repression by glucose and induction by arabinose 
in the range of 0.5 to 20 mM sugar concentration. To demonstrate the efficacy of 
this expression system, the p53 gene under T7 promoter control in two different 
plasmids was expressed in Escherichia coli using pTara as the source of T7 RNA 
polymerase. Repression and induction of p53 were achieved in both a lower and 
higher copy number plasmid, although the levels of induction were higher with 
the lower copy number expression vector. Cotransformation of an expression 
plasmid with pTara provides a low-cost method of T7 RNA polymerase-regulated 
expression that can be fine-tuned using glucose and arabinose concentrations to 
balance protein expression with potential solubility or toxicity problems.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abio.1999.4385
PMID: 10610690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2017 Oct;42(19):3733-3738. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.2017.0149.

[Prokaryotic expression, functional identification of squalene synthase in 
Alisma orientale and its immunoassay study].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu QZ(1), Gu W(1), Wu QN(1), Chao JG(1), Sang XH(1), Liu Q(1), Wang XH(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China.

Squalene synthase of Alisma orientale catalyzes farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) to 
form squalene, which is the key regulatory enzyme of the carbon source flow to 
protostane triterpenes biosynthesis. For further research on the function and 
expression of AoSS gene, the open reading frame (ORF) of squalene synthase gene 
(accession no. JX866770) from A. orientale was subcloned into a prokaryotic 
expression vector pCzn1 and induced the expression of AoSS gene in Escherichia 
coli BL21(Roseta). The fusion protein was mainly in the form of inclusion bodies 
and purified to obtain high purity protein. By verifying its functionality 
through vitro enzymatic reaction, the results showed that the catalytic protein 
had the catalytic activity of FPP into squalene. In order to research the 
expression of AoSS in A. orientale, the purified protein was used to immunized 
rabbits to prepare polyclonal antibody which was then purified, the titer of the 
antibody was greater than 1∶51 200 by ELISA detection, and displayed good 
specificity by Western blotting. The prepared antibody was used for immunoassay 
of AoSS in different organs of A. orientale, and the results showed that the 
AoSS expression level was the highest in tubers, followed by leaves, and lowest 
in root. Successful construction of prokaryotic expression vector, validation of 
gene functions and establishment of rapid immunoassay lay the foundation for 
further researches on the function and regulation of AoSS gene, and also provide 
scientific basis on the application of the protostane triterpenes of A. 
orientale in the field of synthetic biology.

Copyright© by the Chinese Pharmaceutical Association.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.2017.0149
PMID: 29235288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planning 
committee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships with 
commercial interests to disclose.


1608. Cell Microbiol. 2004 Oct;6(10):987-97. doi: 10.1111/j.1462-5822.2004.00416.x.

Cytokeratin 18 interacts with the enteropathogenic Escherichia coli secreted 
protein F (EspF) and is redistributed after infection.

Viswanathan VK(1), Lukic S, Koutsouris A, Miao R, Muza MM, Hecht G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, M/C 716, Section of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Room 718, Clinical Sciences Building, 840S. 
Wood Street, Chicago, IL 60612-7323, USA.

Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) pathogenesis requires the delivery of 
effector proteins into host cytosol by a type III secretion system. The effector 
protein EspF, while critical for disruption of epithelial barrier function 
through alteration of tight junctions, is not required for bacterial viability 
or attachment. Yeast two-hybrid analyses revealed host intermediate filament 
(IF) protein cytokeratin 18 (CK18) as an interacting partner of EspF. This was 
confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation of extracts from EPEC-infected epithelial 
cells. EPEC infection increased detergent-soluble CK18 amounts without 
significantly altering CK18 expression. The adaptor protein 14-3-3 binds to CK18 
and modulates its solubility. EPEC infection promoted CK18/14-3-3 interactions, 
corresponding to the increase of CK18 in the soluble fractions. 14-3-3 also 
co-immunoprecipitated with EspF, suggesting that CK18, 14-3-3 and EspF may form 
a complex in infected cells. The 14-3-3zeta isoform was co-immunoprecipitated 
with CK18, suggesting the involvement of specific signalling pathways. 
Immunofluorescence studies revealed a dramatic alteration in the architecture of 
the IF network in EPEC-infected epithelial cells. IF fragmentation, evident at 2 
h post infection, progressed to a collapse of this network at later time points. 
The secretion mutant (DeltaescN) failed to alter CK18 solubility and IF 
morphology, while deletion of espF partially impaired the ability of EPEC to 
induce CK18 modifications. These results suggest that modifications in 14-3-3 
interactions and IF network, modulated by type III secreted proteins, may be an 
important step in EPEC pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1462-5822.2004.00416.x
PMID: 15339273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2013 May;26(5):377-87. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzs107. Epub 
2013 Mar 10.

Optimized sequential purification protocol for in vivo site-specific 
biotinylated full-length dengue virus capsid protein.

Chong MK(1), Parthasarathy K, Yeo HY, Ng ML.

Author information:
(1)Flavivirology Laboratory, Department of Microbiology, Yong Loo Lin School of 
Medicine, National University Health System, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore.

Dengue virus (DENV) capsid (C) protein is one of the three structural proteins 
that form a mature virus. The main challenge impeding the study of this protein 
is to generate pure non-truncated, full-length C proteins for structural and 
functional studies. This is mainly due to its small molecular weight, highly 
positively charged, stability and solubility properties. Here, we report a 
strategy to construct, express, biotinylate and purify non-truncated, 
full-length DENV C protein. A 6× His tag and a biotin acceptor peptide (BAP) 
were cloned at the N-terminus of C protein using overlapping 
extension-polymerase chain reaction method for site-specific biotinylation. The 
final construct was inserted into pET28a plasmid and BL-21 (CodonPlus) 
expression competent cell strain was selected as there are 12% rare codons in 
the C protein sequence. Strikingly, we found that our recombinant proteins with 
BAP were biotinylated endogenously with high efficiency in Escherichia coli 
BL-21 strains. To purify this His-tagged C protein, nickel-nitriloacetic acid 
affinity chromatography was first carried out under denaturing condition. After 
stepwise dialysis and concurrent refolding, ion exchange-fast protein liquid 
chromatography was performed to further separate the residual contaminants. To 
obtain C protein with high purity, a final round of purification with size 
exclusion chromatography was carried out and a single peak corresponding to C 
protein was attained. With this optimized sequential purification protocol, we 
successfully generated pure biotinylated full-length DENV C protein. The 
functionality of this purified non-truncated DENV C protein was examined and it 
was suitable for structural and molecular studies.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzs107
PMID: 23479673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Mar;46(1):23-32. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.09.003. Epub 
2005 Oct 4.

An optimized system for expression and purification of secreted bacterial 
proteins.

Geisbrecht BV(1), Bouyain S, Pop M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cell Biology and Biophysics, School of Biological Sciences, 
University of Missouri-Kansas City, 5100 Rockhill Road, Kansas City, MO 64110, 
USA. GeisbrechtB@umkc.edu

In this report, we describe an optimized system for the efficient 
overexpression, purification, and refolding of secreted bacterial proteins. 
Candidate secreted proteins were produced recombinantly in Escherichia coli as 
Tobacco Etch Virus protease-cleavable hexahistidine-c-myc eptiope fusion 
proteins. Without regard to their initial solubility, recombinant fusion 
proteins were extracted from whole cells with guanidium chloride, purified under 
denaturing conditions by immobilized metal affinity chromatography, and refolded 
by rapid dilution into a solution containing only Tris buffer and sodium 
chloride. Following concentration on the same resin under native conditions, 
each protein was eluted for further purification and/or characterization. 
Preliminary studies on a test set of 12 secreted proteins ranging in size from 
13 to 130 kDa yielded between 10 and 50 mg of fusion protein per liter of 
induced culture at greater than 90% purity, as judged by Coomassie-stained 
SDS-PAGE. Of the nine proteins further purified, analytical gel filtration 
chromatography indicated that each was a monomer in solution and circular 
dichroism spectroscopy revealed that each had adopted a well-defined secondary 
structure. While there are many potential applications for this system, the 
results presented here suggest that it will be particularly useful for 
investigators employing structural approaches to understand protein function, as 
attested to by the crystal structures of three proteins purified using this 
methodology (B.V. Geisbrecht, B.Y. Hamaoka, B. Perman, A. Zemla, D.J. Leahy, J. 
Biol. Chem. 280 (2005) 17243-17250).

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.09.003
PMID: 16260150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. FEBS J. 2005 Jun;272(12):3162-71. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2005.04735.x.

Translational incorporation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine into proteins.

Ozawa K(1), Headlam MJ, Mouradov D, Watt SJ, Beck JL, Rodgers KJ, Dean RT, Huber 
T, Otting G, Dixon NE.

Author information:
(1)Research School of Chemistry, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.

An Escherichia coli cell-free transcription/translation system was used to 
explore the high-level incorporation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) into 
proteins by replacing tyrosine with DOPA in the reaction mixtures. ESI-MS showed 
specific incorporation of DOPA in place of tyrosine. More than 90% DOPA 
incorporation at each tyrosine site was achieved, allowing the recording of 
clean 15N-HSQC NMR spectra. A redox-staining method specific for DOPA was shown 
to provide a sensitive and generally applicable method for assessing the 
cell-free production of proteins. Of four proteins produced in soluble form in 
the presence of tyrosine, two resulted in insoluble aggregates in the presence 
of high levels of DOPA. DOPA has been found in human proteins, often in 
association with various disease states that implicate protein aggregation 
and/or misfolding. Our results suggest that misfolded and aggregated proteins 
may result, in principle, from ribosome-mediated misincorporation of 
intracellular DOPA accumulated due to oxidative stress. High-yield cell-free 
protein expression systems are uniquely suited to obtain rapid information on 
solubility and aggregation of nascent polypeptide chains.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2005.04735.x
PMID: 15955073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1612. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2011 Jan;76(1):55-66. doi: 10.1002/arch.20406.

Cloning and expression pattern of 3-dehydroecdysone 3β-reductase (3DE 
3β-reductase) from the silkworm, Bombyx mori L.

Yang HJ(1), Liu XJ, Zhou F, Hu JB, Bhaskar R, Li XH, Sun CG, Malik FA, Niu YS, 
Miao YG.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Epidemic Etiology and Immunological Prevention of 
Ministry of Agriculture, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, People's Republic of 
China.

Molting in insects is regulated by molting hormones (ecdysteroids), which are 
also crucial to insect growth, development, reproduction, etc. Ecdysone was 
inactivated to 3-dehydroecdysone (3DE) under ecdysone oxidase (EO), and followed 
by NAD(P)H-dependent irreversible reduction to 3-epiecdysteroid under 3DE 
3a-reductase. On the other hand, 3-dehydroecdysone undergoes reversible 
reduction to ecdysone by 3DE 3β-reductase in the hemolymph. In this article, we 
cloned and characterized 3-dehydroecdysone 3β-reductase (3DE 3β-reductase) in 
the different tissues and the developing stage from the silkworm, Bombyx mori L. 
The B. mori 3DE 3β-reductase cDNA contains an ORF 972 bp and the deduced protein 
sequence containing 323 amino acid residues. Analysis showed that the deduced 
3DE 3β-reductase belongs to the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) superfamily, which has 
the NAD(P)-binding domain, indicating that the function of 3DE 3β-reductase 
depends on the existence of NAD(P)H. Using Escherichia coli, a high level 
expression of a fusion polypeptide band of approx. 40 kDa was observed. The high 
transcription of 3DE 3β-reductase was mainly observed in the genitalia and fatty 
bodies in the third day of the fifth-instar larvae, followed next in the head, 
epidermis, and hemocytes. The expression of 3DE 3β-reductase in the early of 
every instar was lower than that in the late of instar. When the titer of 3DE is 
low, higher expression of 3DE 3β-reductase is necessary to maintain the ecdysone 
titer in body through converting 3DE to ecdysone, while the 3DE titer is high, 
the expression of 3DE 3β-reductase showed feedback inhibition.

© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.20406
PMID: 21125567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1613. J Microbiol Immunol Infect. 2014 Feb;47(1):57-62. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmii.2012.11.004. Epub 2013 Jan 24.

The molecular adjuvant mC3d enhances the immunogenicity of FimA from type I 
fimbriae of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis.

Musa HH(1), Zhang WJ(2), Lv J(2), Duan XL(2), Yang Y(2), Zhu CH(3), Li HF(4), 
Chen KW(4), Meng X(2), Zhu GQ(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China; Faculty 
of Veterinary Science, University of Nyala, Sudan. Electronic address: 
hassan_hm30@yahoo.com.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China; Jiangsu 
Institute of Poultry Science, Yangzhou 225003, China.
(4)Jiangsu Institute of Poultry Science, Yangzhou 225003, China.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China. 
Electronic address: yzgqzhu@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The fimbriae of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis are used for 
colonization and invasion into host cells, and have drawn considerable interest 
because fimbriae can serve as potential immunogens against many pathogenic 
bacteria that colonize on epithelial surfaces. The purpose of the study is to 
use a molecular adjuvant, C3d, to enhance the immunogenicity of FimA proteins 
against Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis.
METHODS: FimA of type I fimbriae from Salmonella enteritidis and FimA with one 
copy of mC3d, two copies of mC3d2 and three copies of mC3d3 were cloned into the 
expression vector pCold-TF. Soluble fusion proteins of FimA with different copy 
of mC3d were induced by IPTG and expressed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). 
Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) showed that 
the recombinant proteins from pCold-TF-fimA, TF-fimA-mC3d, TF-fimA-mC3d2, 
TF-fimA-mC3d3 were 70 kDa, 100 kDa, 130 kDa and 160 kDa, respectively. The 
fusion protein was recognized by rabbit anti-fimbriae polyclonal antibodies, and 
then visualized by goat anti-rabbit polyclonal antibodies with a chrome 
appearance by enzyme-subtract interaction. The recombinant proteins were 
purified by Ni-TED (tris-carboxymethyl ethylene diamine), immobilized metal ion 
affinity chromatography (IMAC). Balb/c mice were subcutaneously immunized with 
the purified proteins and the immune response was monitored by an enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for FimA-specific antibody. The immunized mice were 
challenged with a 10-fold LD50 dose (i.e., 100 CFU) of Salmonella enterica 
serovar Enteritidis standard strain (SD-2) 1 week after the second immunization.
RESULTS: The immunized mice with the fusion proteins FimA-mC3d2 and FimA-mC3d3 
had increased levels of ELISA titer of antibody that were 2 and 4 logs, 
respectively, more immunogenic than the TF-FimA protein alone. The challenge 
results showed that immune protection rate in the mice immunized with 10 μg of 
FimA, FimA-mC3d2, and FimA-mC3d3 were 50%, 75% and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that mC3d can be expressed in a prokaryotic vector and 
enhance the immune response of the recombinant protein. FimA-mC3d3 is 
potentially a subunit vaccine against S. enterica serovar Enteritidis infection.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmii.2012.11.004
PMID: 23352331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1614. J Biol Chem. 2012 Jun 22;287(26):22142-50. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.372854. Epub 
2012 May 10.

Chimeric glutathione S-transferases containing inserts of kininogen peptides: 
potential novel protein therapeutics.

Bentley AA(1), Merkulov SM, Peng Y, Rozmarynowycz R, Qi X, Pusztai-Carey M, 
Merrick WC, Yee VC, McCrae KR, Komar AA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Gene Regulation in Health and Disease, Department of Biological, 
Geological, and Environmental Sciences, Cleveland State University, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44115, USA.

The study of synthetic peptides corresponding to discrete regions of proteins 
has facilitated the understanding of protein structure-activity relationships. 
Short peptides can also be used as powerful therapeutic agents. However, in many 
instances, small peptides are prone to rapid degradation or aggregation and may 
lack the conformation required to mimic the functional motifs of the protein. 
For peptides to function as pharmacologically active agents, efficient 
production or expression, high solubility, and retention of biological activity 
through purification and storage steps are required. We report here the design, 
expression, and functional analysis of eight engineered GST proteins (denoted 
GSHKTs) in which peptides ranging in size from 8 to 16 amino acids and derived 
from human high molecular weight kininogen (HK) domain 5 were inserted into GST 
(between Gly-49 and Leu-50). Peptides derived from HK are known to inhibit cell 
proliferation, angiogenesis, and tumor metastasis, and the biological activity 
of the HK peptides was dramatically (>50-fold) enhanced following insertion into 
GST. GSHKTs are soluble and easily purified from Escherichia coli by affinity 
chromatography. Functionally, these hybrid proteins cause inhibition of 
endothelial cell proliferation. Crystallographic analysis of GSHKT10 and GSHKT13 
(harboring 10- and 13-residue HK peptides, respectively) showed that the overall 
GST structure was not perturbed. These results suggest that the therapeutic 
efficacy of short peptides can be enhanced by insertion into larger proteins 
that are easily expressed and purified and that GST may potentially be used as 
such a carrier.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.372854
PMCID: PMC3381172
PMID: 22577144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1615. J Med Virol. 2018 Jul;90(7):1184-1191. doi: 10.1002/jmv.25065. Epub 2018 Mar 30.

Construction, expression, and characterization of a single-chain variable 
fragment (ScFv) antibody targeting to the encephalomyocarditis virus.

Zhang H(1)(2), Wang X(3), Li X(1), Ma Z(2), Feng R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Key Bio-Engineering and Technology Laboratory of SEAC, Northwest Minzu 
University, Lanzhou, PR China.
(2)Animal Cell Engineering and Technology Research Center of Gansu, Northwest 
Minzu University, Lanzhou, PR China.
(3)School of Life Science and Bioengineering, Northwest Minzu University, 
Lanzhou, PR China.

Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) is as a potential zoonotic agent with a wide 
host range. Here, applying gene splicing by overlap extension PCR (SOE-PCR), we 
describe a simple method for producing single-chain variable fragment (scFv) 
antibody against EMCV that configurates in the orientation of VH-(GGGGS)4 -VL. 
DNA template was resverse transcribed by total RNA that derived from 
hyperimmunized antibody positive mice spleen after inoculation inactivated 
EMCV-PV21 as antigen. Using the degenerate primers designed for the variable 
regions of IgG of murine antibody, the 417 bp of gene encoding VH-linker (VHL) 
and 360 bp of gene encoding linker-VL (LVL) of the anti-EMCV was individually 
amplified from DNA template by PCR, repectively. The 762 bp gene encoding 
anti-EMCV scFv was constructed by SOE-PCR when the mixed VHL and LVL genes were 
used as the template. The amplified gene subcloned into pGEX-6P1 to yield 
pGEX-6P1/EMCV-scFv. Recombinant vector transformed into the Escherichia coli 
BL21 (DE3) and a 53 KDa GST-scFv fusion protein was obtained by SDS-PAGE 
electrophoresis. Animal experiment results showed that the pretective rate of 
mice in group A which challenged 500 μL 104 TCID50 EMCV per mouse for 7 d 
post-inoculation scFv 3 d (0.5 mg purified recombinant scFv per mouse) was 
91.67% (11/12). The serum anti-EMCV antibody titer in group A mice was most 
significantly higher than that in positive control mouse (P < 0.01), coversely 
the serum relative mRNA copies were significantly lower than that in positive 
control mouse (P < 0.05). These findings indicated that recombinant anti-EMCV 
scFv has remarkable anti-EMCV effect in mice.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.25065
PMID: 29476627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Feb;33(2):238-45. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.10.016.

A novel multi-affinity tag system to produce high levels of soluble and 
biotinylated proteins in Escherichia coli.

Ashraf SS(1), Benson RE, Payne ES, Halbleib CM, Grøn H.

Author information:
(1)Karo Bio USA, 4222 Emperor Boulevard, Suite 560, Durham, NC 27703, USA. 
salman.ashraf@uaeu.ac.ae

We describe here a novel multi-affinity tag vector that can be used to produce 
high levels of soluble, in vivo biotinylated proteins in Escherichia coli. This 
system combines the solubility-enhancing ability of maltose-binding protein 
(MBP), the versatility of the hexahistidine tag (His(6)), and the site-specific 
in vivo biotinylation of a 15-amino acid tag (AviTag). We used this multi-tag 
system in an attempt to improve expression levels of two prokaryotic 
proteins-elongation factor Tu (TufB) and DNA gyrase subunit A (GyrA)-as well as 
two eukaryotic nuclear receptors-glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and small 
heterodimer partner (SHP). The multi-tag system not only vastly improved the 
expression of the two prokaryotic proteins tested, but also yielded complete, 
site-specific, in vivo biotinylation of these proteins. The results obtained 
from the TufB expression and purification are presented and discussed in detail. 
The nuclear receptors, though soluble as fusion partners, failed to remain 
soluble once the MBP tag was cleaved. Despite this limitation of the system, the 
multi-affinity tag approach is a useful system that can improve expression of 
some otherwise insoluble or poorly expressing proteins, to obtain homogeneous, 
purified, fully biotinylated protein for downstream applications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.10.016
PMID: 14711512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1617. J Immunol. 2004 Feb 15;172(4):2367-73. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.172.4.2367.

Conformation and glycosylation of a megalin fragment correlate with 
nephritogenicity in Heymann nephritis.

Tramontano A(1), Makker SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California School of Medicine, Davis, 
CA 95616, USA.

Active Heymann nephritis (AHN), a rat model of autoimmune glomerulonephritis, is 
induced by immunization with autologous megalin, a 600-kDa cell surface 
glycoprotein isolated from crude renal extracts. Recombinant proteins containing 
a 563-residue N-terminal sequence of megalin were obtained from Escherichia coli 
and baculovirus-insect cell expression systems. Rats immunized with the soluble, 
secreted protein encoded by a baculovirus construct elicited high titer 
anti-megalin autoantibodies and developed glomerular immune deposits and 
elevated proteinuria consistent with AHN. Rats treated with the bacterial or 
nonsecreted insect cell proteins produced a milder anti-megalin response and did 
not develop the disease. Nephritogenicity appeared to correlate with 
conformational or other structural features of native megalin. All three 
recombinant proteins were reactive in Western blots with rabbit anti-megalin 
antiserum, whereas the insect cell-derived proteins reacted preferentially in 
Western blot and ELISA with anti-megalin autoantibodies from rats with AHN 
induced by native megalin. Only the secreted insect cell product was stained in 
a lectin blot, suggesting its specific glycosylation. These observations provide 
evidence that a megalin N-terminal domain includes B and T cell epitopes 
sufficient for a pathogenic autoimmune response and that a native-like 
conformation and glycosylation are essential for the induction of disease. The 
importance of conformational B cell epitopes for pathogenic autoantibodies 
recapitulates observations made in other models of organ-specific autoimmune 
disease. Glycosidic modifications could influence the presentation of either B 
or T cell epitopes in AHN, consistent with emerging evidence of the role of 
post-translational modifications in pathogenic autoimmune responses.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.172.4.2367
PMID: 14764706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1618. ACS Comb Sci. 2019 Apr 8;21(4):323-335. doi: 10.1021/acscombsci.8b00182. Epub 
2019 Feb 18.

Biophysical Characterization Platform Informs Protein Scaffold Evolvability.

Golinski AW(1), Holec PV(1), Mischler KM(1), Hackel BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science , University of 
Minnesota-Twin Cities , 421 Washington Avenue Southeast, 356 Amundson Hall , 
Minneapolis , Minnesota 55455 , United States.

Evolving specific molecular recognition function of proteins requires strategic 
navigation of a complex mutational landscape. Protein scaffolds aid evolution 
via a conserved platform on which a modular paratope can be evolved to alter 
binding specificity. Although numerous protein scaffolds have been discovered, 
the underlying properties that permit binding evolution remain unknown. We 
present an algorithm to predict a protein scaffold's ability to evolve novel 
binding function based upon computationally calculated biophysical parameters. 
The ability of 17 small proteins to evolve binding functionality across seven 
discovery campaigns was determined via magnetic activated cell sorting of 1010 
yeast-displayed protein variants. Twenty topological and biophysical properties 
were calculated for 787 small protein scaffolds and reduced into independent 
components. Regularization deduced which extracted features best predicted 
binding functionality, providing a 4/6 true positive rate, a 9/11 negative 
predictive value, and a 4/6 positive predictive value. Model analysis suggests a 
large, disconnected paratope will permit evolved binding function. Previous 
protein engineering endeavors have suggested that starting with a highly 
developable (high producibility, stability, solubility) protein will offer 
greater mutational tolerance. Our results support this connection between 
developability and evolvability by demonstrating a relationship between protein 
production in the soluble fraction of Escherichia coli and the ability to evolve 
binding function upon mutation. We further explain the necessity for initial 
developability by observing a decrease in proteolytic stability of protein 
mutants that possess binding functionality over nonfunctional mutants. Future 
iterations of protein scaffold discovery and evolution will benefit from a 
combination of computational prediction and knowledge of initial developability 
properties.

DOI: 10.1021/acscombsci.8b00182
PMCID: PMC6458986
PMID: 30681831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


1619. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2019 Sep 10;32(1):13-24. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzz024.

Improving on nature's shortcomings: evolving a lipase for increased lipolytic 
activity, expression and thermostability.

Alfaro-Chávez AL(1), Liu JW(2), Porter JL(1), Goldman A(3)(4), Ollis DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Research School of Chemistry, Australian National University, Canberra ACT 
2601, Australia.
(2)CSIRO Land and Water, Black Mountain, Canberra ACT 2601, Australia.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular 
Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(4)Molecular and Integrative Biosciences Program, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki FIN-0018, Finland.

An enzyme must be soluble, stable, active and easy to produce to be useful in 
industrial applications. Not all enzymes possess these attributes. We set out to 
determine how many changes are required to convert an enzyme with poor 
properties into one that has useful properties. Lipase Lip3 from Drosophila 
melanogaster had been previously optimised for expression in Escherichia coli. 
The expression levels were good, but Lip3 was mainly insoluble with poor 
activity. Directed evolution was used to identify variants with enhanced 
activity along with improved solubility. Five variants and the wild-type (wt) 
enzyme were purified and characterised. The yield of the wt enzyme was just 
2.2 mg/L of culture, while a variant, produced under the same conditions, gave 
351 mg. The improvement of activity of the best variant was 200 times higher 
than that of the wt when the crude lysates were analysed using pNP-C8, but with 
purified protein, the improvement observed was 1.5 times higher. This means that 
most of the increase of activity is due to increase in solubility and stability. 
All the purified variants showed increased thermal stability compared with the 
wt enzyme that had a T1/2 of 37°C, while the mutant with P291L of 42.2°C and the 
mutant R7_47D with five mutations had a value of 52.9°C, corresponding to an 
improvement of 16°C. The improved variants had between five and nine changes 
compared with the wt enzyme. There were four changes that were found in all 30 
final round variants for which sequences were obtained; three of these changes 
were found in the substrate-binding domain.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzz024
PMID: 31403166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Oct;174:105681. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105681. Epub 
2020 Jun 4.

Expression, purification, and glycosylation of epidermal growth factor-like 
repeat 27 from mouse NOTCH1.

Grennell JA(1), Jenkins KD(1), Zhong H(1), Paudyal A(1), Luther KB(2), 
Haltiwanger RS(2), Macnaughtan MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, 70803, 
United States.
(2)Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, 
30602, United States.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, 70803, 
United States. Electronic address: macnau@lsu.edu.

Notch receptors have large extracellular domains containing up to 36 tandem 
epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, which facilitate cell signaling by 
binding ligands on neighboring cells. Notch receptors play major roles in a 
variety of developmental processes by controlling cell fate decisions. Each EGF 
repeat consists of about 40 amino acids with 3 conserved disulfide bonds. Many 
of the EGF repeats are modified by O-linked fucose glycans, and more than half 
have calcium-binding sites, but the sequences of the EGF repeats vary giving 
distinct roles to each repeat. EGF repeat 27 (EGF27) from mouse NOTCH1 is 
modified with O-fucose and is 1 of 7 repeats that is differentially modified by 
specific Fringe enzymes, which are known to regulate NOTCH1 activation and 
ligand binding. To better understand the role of EGF27 in NOTCH1 function and 
regulation, the 3-dimensional structures of EGF27 and its glycoforms are being 
pursued. E. coli cells were used to produce EGF27 in sufficient quantities for 
nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. Previous attempts to express the repeat 
alone and refold the repeat under a steady redox environment were unsuccessful 
due to low yields and extensive mixed-disulfide bond cross-linking. A new 
strategy using a cleavable maltose binding protein fusion tag increased the 
solubility and yield of EGF27. With the fusion tag, EGF27 was refolded to 
produce the correct disulfide bond arrangement, which was verified enzymatically 
with the glycosyltransferases, Protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) and 
Lunatic Fringe (LFNG).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105681
PMCID: PMC7494549
PMID: 32505675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2017 Feb;35(1):59-62.

[Mouse immune responses elicited by eukaryotic expression plasmid and 
prokaryotically expressed protein of Brugia malayi myosin 29 epitope].

[Article in Chinese]

Xia YY, Xu Q, Sun TT, Fang H, Liu W, Lu SJ, Fang Z.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the immune responses elicited in BALB/c mice by 
vaccination with eukaryotic expression plasmid pcDNA3.1(+)-BmM29 containing 
Brugia malayi myosin 29(BmM29) epitode and prokaryotically expressed recombinant 
BmM2 protein(rBmM29) respectively.
METHODS: rBmM29 protein was expressed in E. coli strain BL21, purified as 
recombinant protein vaccine, and administered via multiple subcutaneous 
injections. The purified recombinant plasmid pcDNA3.1(+)-BmM29 was used as the 
nucleic acid vaccine and injected into the tibialis anterior muscle. Sixty 
BALB/c mice were randomized to receive three immunizations(with intervals of 2 
weeks) with PBS (100 μg, group A), pcDNA3.1(+)/CpG (100 μg/30 μg, group B), 
pcDNA3.1(+)-BmM29/CpG (100 μg/30 μg, group C), rBmM29/CpG(50 μg/30 μg, group D), 
or pcDNA3.1(+)-BmM29/rBmM29/CpG (two injections of pcDNA3.1(+)-BmM29/CpG 100 
μg/30 μg followed by a rBmM29/CpG 50 μg/30 μg). Serum was prepared through 
ophthalmectomy at week 4, 6, and 8 after primary immunization, and the serum IgG 
titer was determined by ELISA. The mice were sacrificed at week 8, splenocyte 
suspension cultured for 48 h, and levels of INF-γ and IL-4 in the supernatant 
detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: ELISA results showed that the A490 values of serum IgG in groups A-E 
were 0.038 ± 0.050,0.053 ± 0.009,0.360 ± 0.035,0.456 ± 0.025,0.370 ± 0.025 at 
week 4,0.045 ± 0.003,0.045 ± 0.005,0.510 ± 0.018,0.548 ± 0.010,0.552 ± 0.018 at 
week 6, and 0.041 ± 0.004,0.044 ± 0.009,0.606 ± 0.047,0.674 ± 0.042,0.770 ± 
0.041 at week 8, significantly higher in groups C, D and E than in groups A and 
B (P < 0.05) at all time points, and significantly higher in group E than in 
groups C and D(P < 0.05) at week 8. The IFN-γ levels in splenocyte culture 
supernatant at week 8 after primary immunization were (47.72 ± 8.94),(50.43 ± 
2.81),(304.78 ± 8.42),(242.28 ± 5.99), and(426.52 ± 6.76) pg/ml in groups A-E, 
respectively, significantly higher in groups C-D than in groups A and B(P < 
0.05), and in group E than in groups C and D(P < 0.05). The IL-4 levels in 
splenocyte culture supernatant were(60.00 ± 11.14),(57.71 ± 15.95),(93.17 ± 
12.56),(96.67 ± 11.48), and (101.17 ± 5.81) pg/ml, significantly higher in 
groups C-D than in groups A and B(P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Both the recombinant plasmid pcDNA3.19(+)-BmM29 and rBmM29 protein 
could elicit specific humoral and cellular immune responses in mice. Combined 
immunization with nucleic acid vaccine and protein vaccine is superior to each 
of the two alone.

PMID: 30133702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. J Virol Methods. 2008 Aug;151(2):257-263. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2008.04.008. 
Epub 2008 Jun 13.

Generation and characterization of an Npro-disrupted marker bovine viral 
diarrhea virus derived from a BAC cDNA.

Fan ZC(1), Bird RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn 
University, Auburn, AL 36849-5519, USA.

In vitro studies showed that N(pro) protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus 
(BVDV) interferes with cellular antiviral defense. To understand the role of 
N(pro) protein in successful viral invasion of the host and establishment of the 
lifetime persistence, an infectious N(pro)-disrupted virus with a noncytopathic 
(NCP) background is desired. In this study, an N(pro)-disrupted cDNA, 
pBSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A, was constructed based on an infectious full-length BAC cDNA 
clone of NCP BVDV strain SD1, pBSD1. In this clone, whole N(pro) gene except its 
first 57 nucleotides (nt) was in frame substituted with an eGFP2A sequence. 
eGFP2A was constructed by in frame fusing a foot-and-mouth disease virus 2A 
protease (FMDV 2A(pro)) to C-terminus of eGFP. Intramolecular cleavage of FMDV 
2A(pro) at its C-terminal glycine-proline dipeptide will release the viral 
nucleocapsid protein from the nascent viral polyprotein and the processed eGFP2A 
protein will then act as a marker protein. The resulting BAC cDNA clone was 
propagated stably for at least 10 passages in E. coli strain XL1-blue as 
determined by sequencing the progeny plasmids. The rescued virus, 
BSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A, showed a peak virus titer approximately 1.2 log(10) lower 
and a maximum virus yield about 20 hr later than wt SD1, respectively, and was 
similar to wt SD1 in viral RNA replication and protein expression. FACS, 
fluorescent microscopy and western blotting assays confirmed that functional 
eGFP2A protein was expressed and processed properly in MDBK cells. In summary, 
the availability of BSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A with a stable viral genome would 
facilitate the investigation of the role of N(pro) protein in transplacental 
transfer of BVDV and establishment of persistent infection in bovine fetus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2008.04.008
PMID: 18555541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2019 Apr 17;12:89. doi: 10.1186/s13068-019-1409-8. 
eCollection 2019.

Identification of non-conserved residues essential for improving the 
hydrocarbon-producing activity of cyanobacterial aldehyde-deformylating 
oxygenase.

Kudo H(1), Hayashi Y(1), Arai M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo, 153-8902 Japan.
(2)2Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo, 
3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo, 153-8902 Japan.

BACKGROUND: Cyanobacteria produce hydrocarbons corresponding to diesel fuels by 
means of aldehyde-deformylating oxygenase (ADO). ADO catalyzes a difficult and 
unusual reaction in the conversion of aldehydes to hydrocarbons and has been 
widely used for biofuel production in metabolic engineering; however, its 
activity is low. A comparison of the amino acid sequences of highly active and 
less active ADOs will elucidate non-conserved residues that are essential for 
improving the hydrocarbon-producing activity of ADOs.
RESULTS: Here, we measured the activities of ADOs from 10 representative 
cyanobacterial strains by expressing each of them in Escherichia coli and 
quantifying the hydrocarbon yield and amount of soluble ADO. We demonstrated 
that the activity was highest for the ADO from Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 
(7942ADO). In contrast, the ADO from Gloeobacter violaceus PCC 7421 (7421ADO) 
had low activity but yielded high amounts of soluble protein, resulting in a 
high production level of hydrocarbons. By introducing 37 single amino acid 
substitutions at the non-conserved residues of the less active ADO (7421ADO) to 
make its sequence more similar to that of the highly active ADO (7942ADO), we 
found 20 mutations that improved the activity of 7421ADO. In addition, 13 other 
mutations increased the amount of soluble ADO while maintaining more than 80% of 
wild-type activity. Correlation analysis showed a solubility-activity trade-off 
in ADO, in which activity was negatively correlated with solubility.
CONCLUSIONS: We succeeded in identifying non-conserved residues that are 
essential for improving ADO activity. Our results may be useful for generating 
combinatorial mutants of ADO that have both higher activity and higher amounts 
of the soluble protein in vivo, thereby producing higher yields of 
biohydrocarbons.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-019-1409-8
PMCID: PMC6469105
PMID: 31015863

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1624. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 May 20;408(4):589-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.04.066. Epub 2011 Apr 21.

A conserved histidine in human DNLZ/HEP is required for stimulation of HSPA9 
ATPase activity.

Zhai P(1), Vu MT, Hoff KG, Silberg JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Rice University, Houston, TX 
77251, USA.

The DNL-type zinc-finger protein DNLZ regulates the activity and solubility of 
the human mitochondrial chaperone HSPA9. To identify DNLZ residues that are 
critical for chaperone regulation, we carried out an alanine mutagenesis scan of 
charged residues in a W115I mutant of human DNLZ and assessed the effect of each 
mutation on interactions with HSPA9. All mutants analyzed promote the solubility 
of HSPA9 upon expression in Escherichia coli. However, binding studies examining 
the effect of DNLZ mutants on chaperone tryptophan fluorescence identified three 
mutations (R81A, H107A, and D111A) that decrease DNLZ binding affinity for 
nucleotide-free chaperone. In addition, ATPase measurements revealed that 
DNLZ-R81A and DNLZ-D111A both stimulate the catalytic activity HSPA9, whereas 
DNLZ-H107A does not elicit an increase in activity even when present at a 
concentration that is 10-fold higher than the level required for half-maximal 
stimulation by DNLZ. These findings implicate a conserved histidine as critical 
for DNLZ regulation of mitochondrial HSPA9 catalytic activity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.04.066
PMID: 21530495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1625. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2018 Feb 12;11:35. doi: 10.1186/s13068-018-1031-1. 
eCollection 2018.

Production of (2R, 3R)-2,3-butanediol using engineered Pichia pastoris: strain 
construction, characterization and fermentation.

Yang Z(1), Zhang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Ottawa, 161 
Louis Pasteur Private, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5 Canada.

BACKGROUND: 2,3-butanediol (2,3-BD) is a bulk platform chemical with various 
potential applications such as aviation fuel. 2,3-BD has three optical isomers: 
(2R, 3R)-, (2S, 3S)- and meso-2,3-BD. Optically pure 2,3-BD is a crucial 
precursor for the chiral synthesis and it can also be used as anti-freeze agent 
due to its low freezing point. 2,3-BD has been produced in both native and 
non-native hosts. Several pathogenic bacteria were reported to produce 2,3-BD in 
mixture of its optical isomers including Klebsiella pneumoniae and Klebsiella 
oxytoca. Engineered hosts based on episomal plasmid expression such as 
Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Bacillus subtilis are not ideal 
for industrial fermentation due to plasmid instability.
RESULTS: Pichia pastoris is generally regarded as safe and a well-established 
host for high-level heterologous protein production. To produce pure (2R, 
3R)-2,3-BD enantiomer, we developed a P. pastoris strain by introducing a 
synthetic pathway. The alsS and alsD genes from B. subtilis were codon-optimized 
and synthesized. The BDH1 gene from S. cerevisiae was cloned. These three 
pathway genes were integrated into the genome of P. pastoris and expressed under 
the control of GAP promoter. Production of (2R, 3R)-2,3-BD was achieved using 
glucose as feedstock. The optical purity of (2R, 3R)-2,3-BD was more than 99%. 
The titer of (2R, 3R)-2,3-BD reached 12 g/L with 40 g/L glucose as carbon source 
in shake flask fermentation. The fermentation conditions including pH, agitation 
speeds and aeration rates were optimized in batch cultivations. The highest 
titer of (2R, 3R)-2,3-BD achieved in fed-batch fermentation using YPD media was 
45 g/L. The titer of 2,3-BD was enhanced to 74.5 g/L through statistical medium 
optimization.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential of engineering P. pastoris into a microbial cell 
factory for biofuel production was evaluated in this work using (2R, 3R)-2,3-BD 
as an example. Engineered P. pastoris could be a promising workhorse for the 
production of optically pure (2R, 3R)-2,3-BD.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-018-1031-1
PMCID: PMC5808657
PMID: 29449883


1626. DNA Cell Biol. 2007 Jun;26(6):361-7. doi: 10.1089/dna.2006.0547.

Induction of tetravalent protective immunity against four dengue serotypes by 
the tandem domain III of the envelope protein.

Chen S(1), Yu M, Jiang T, Deng Y, Qin C, Qin E.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Institute of Microbiology 
and Epidemiology, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.

In the present study, the domain IIIs of all four dengue virus (DENV) serotypes 
were connected sequentially to construct the tandem domain III. The resulting 
DNA fragment was then cloned into pBAD/Topo ThioFusion plasmid. After induction, 
the Escherichia coli expression protein was purified and used to immunize BALB/c 
mice by subcutaneous route. The sera from mice immunized with the purified 
protein were confirmed to contain specific high antibody titers against DEN1, 
DEN2, and DEN4, and moderate antibody titer against DEN3. In suckling mouse 
model, 70% of the mice challenged with DEN1, DEN2, and DEN4 in combination with 
sera from mice immunized with the purified protein were protected, and 18% of 
the mice challenged with DEN3 in combination with the same sera were protected. 
Our data suggest that the tandem domain III of the envelope protein can be used 
as a potential tetravalent dengue vaccine based on a single antigen.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.2006.0547
PMID: 17570760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun. 2018 Sep 1;74(Pt 9):549-557. doi: 
10.1107/S2053230X18009901. Epub 2018 Aug 29.

MBP-binding DARPins facilitate the crystallization of an MBP fusion protein.

Gumpena R(1), Lountos GT(2), Waugh DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, 
National Cancer Institute at Frederick, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.
(2)Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory, Basic Science Program, Leidos 
Biomedical Research Inc., Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research 
Sponsored by the National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.

The production of high-quality crystals is the main bottleneck in determining 
the structures of proteins using X-ray crystallography. In addition to being 
recognized as a very effective solubility-enhancing fusion partner, Escherichia 
coli maltose-binding protein (MBP) has also been successfully employed as a 
`fixed-arm' crystallization chaperone in more than 100 cases. Here, it is 
reported that designed ankyrin-repeat proteins (DARPins) that bind with high 
affinity to MBP can promote the crystallization of an MBP fusion protein when 
the fusion protein alone fails to produce diffraction-quality crystals. As a 
proof of principle, three different co-crystal structures of MBP fused to the 
catalytic domain of human dual-specificity phosphatase 1 in complex with DARPins 
are reported.

open access.

DOI: 10.1107/S2053230X18009901
PMCID: PMC6130421
PMID: 30198887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Aug 3;107(31):13654-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1006138107. Epub 2010 Jul 19.

Combining metabolic and protein engineering of a terpenoid biosynthetic pathway 
for overproduction and selectivity control.

Leonard E(1), Ajikumar PK, Thayer K, Xiao WH, Mo JD, Tidor B, Stephanopoulos G, 
Prather KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

A common strategy of metabolic engineering is to increase the endogenous supply 
of precursor metabolites to improve pathway productivity. The ability to further 
enhance heterologous production of a desired compound may be limited by the 
inherent capacity of the imported pathway to accommodate high precursor supply. 
Here, we present engineered diterpenoid biosynthesis as a case where 
insufficient downstream pathway capacity limits high-level levopimaradiene 
production in Escherichia coli. To increase levopimaradiene synthesis, we 
amplified the flux toward isopentenyl diphosphate and dimethylallyl diphosphate 
precursors and reprogrammed the rate-limiting downstream pathway by generating 
combinatorial mutations in geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase and 
levopimaradiene synthase. The mutant library contained pathway variants that not 
only increased diterpenoid production but also tuned the selectivity toward 
levopimaradiene. The most productive pathway, combining precursor flux 
amplification and mutant synthases, conferred approximately 2,600-fold increase 
in levopimaradiene levels. A maximum titer of approximately 700 mg/L was 
subsequently obtained by cultivation in a bench-scale bioreactor. The present 
study highlights the importance of engineering proteins along with pathways as a 
key strategy in achieving microbial biosynthesis and overproduction of 
pharmaceutical and chemical products.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1006138107
PMCID: PMC2922259
PMID: 20643967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A provisional patent application describing 
elements of this work has been filed.


1629. Data Brief. 2017 Mar 10;11:533-536. doi: 10.1016/j.dib.2017.03.011. eCollection 
2017 Apr.

Data on optimization of expression and purification of AIMP2-DX2 protein in 
Escherichia coli.

Jha R(1), Cho HY(1), Mushtaq AU(1), Lee K(1), Kim DG(2), Kim S(2), Jeon YH(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Korea University, 2511 Sejong-ro, Sejong 30019, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Medicinal Bioconvergence Research Center, Seoul National University, Seoul 
08826, Republic of Korea; Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College 
of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea.

AIMP2-DX2 is a splicing variant of AIMP2 protein which has been implicated in 
human lung cancer and chemoresistance of ovarian cancer (J.W. Choi, D.G. Kim, 
A.E. Lee, H.R. Kim, J.Y. Lee, N.H. Kwon, et al., 2011; J.W. Choi, J.W. Lee, J.K. 
Kim, H.K. Jeon, J.J. Choi, D.G. Kim, et al., 2012) [1,2]. We have shown, here, 
the data for the expression of AIMP2-DX2 protein in Escherichia coli and 
optimization of the critical steps in purification of AIMP2-DX2. The data 
described here has been successfully used to get a maximum yield of highly pure 
AIMP2-DX2 for subsequent characterization of its biophysical property in: 
"Purification and biophysical characterization of the AIMP2-DX2 protein" (R. 
Jha, H.Y. Cho, A. Ul Mushtaq, K. Lee, D.G. Kim, S. Kim, et al., 2017) [3].

DOI: 10.1016/j.dib.2017.03.011
PMCID: PMC5361769
PMID: 28367482


1630. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2002 May-Jun;57(5-6):522-9. doi: 
10.1515/znc-2002-5-621.

Cyanophycin synthetase-like enzymes of non-cyanobacterial eubacteria: 
characterization of the polymer produced by a recombinant synthetase of 
Desulfitobacterium hafniense.

Ziegler K(1), Deutzmann R, Lockau W.

Author information:
(1)Bayer AG, Leverkusen, Germany. karl.ziegler@biologie.hu-berlin.de

Some bacterial genomes were found to contain genes encoding putative proteins 
with considerable sequence homology to cyanophycin synthetase CphA of 
cyanobacteria. Such a gene from the Gram-positive, spore-forming anaerobe 
Desulfitobacterium hafniense was cloned. Expression in Escherichia coli resulted 
in the formation of a polydispers copolymer of aspartic acid and arginine, with 
a minor amount of lysine, of about 30 kDa molecular mass. In contrast to 
cyanophycin, this polymer was water-soluble. The structure of the polymer formed 
by the synthetase from Desulfitobacterium hafniense was studied by enzymatic 
degradation with the cyanophycin-specific hydrolase cyanophycinase, and by 
chemical and mass-spectroscopic analyses. Despite of the differences in 
solubility, indicating that both polymers cannot be completely identical, the 
chemical structure was found to be very similar to that of cyanophycin. The 
results suggest that the use of cyanophycin-like polymers as a nitrogen-rich 
reserve material is not restricted to cyanobacteria, and that such polymers may 
not necessarily be stored in granules.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2002-5-621
PMID: 12132696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1631. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Oct 21;8:593041. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.593041. 
eCollection 2020.

Expression, Purification, Refolding, and Characterization of a Neverland Protein 
From Caenorhabditis elegans.

Mao S(1)(2)(3)(4), Song Z(3), Wu M(3), Wang X(3), Lu F(1)(2)(3)(4), Qin 
HM(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, Tianjin, China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Industrial Microbiology, Tianjin University of 
Science and Technology, Tianjin, China.
(3)College of Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, 
Tianjin, China.
(4)National Engineering Laboratory for Industrial Enzymes, Tianjin, China.

Steroid hormones that serve as vital compounds are necessary for the development 
and metabolism of a variety of organisms. The neverland (NVD) family genes 
encode the conserved Rieske-type oxygenases, which are accountable for the 
dehydrogenation during the synthesis and regulation of steroid hormones. 
However, the His-tagged NVD protein from Caenorhabditis elegans expresses as 
inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). This bottleneck can be solved 
through refolding by urea or the introduction of a maltose-binding protein (MBP) 
tag at the N-terminus. Through further research on purification after the 
introduction of a MBP tag at the N-terminus, the CD measurement and 
fluorescence-based thermal shift assay indicated that MBP was favorable for the 
NVD proteins' solubility and stability, which may be beneficial for the 
large-scale manufacture of NVD protein for further research. The structural 
model contained the Rieske [2Fe-2S] domain and non-heme iron-binding motif, 
which were similar to 3-ketosteroid 9 α-hydroxylase.

Copyright © 2020 Mao, Song, Wu, Wang, Lu and Qin.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.593041
PMCID: PMC7609953
PMID: 33195160


1632. Protein Expr Purif. 2018 Aug;148:46-53. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.03.008. Epub 
2018 Mar 27.

High yield production of human invariant chain CD74 constructs fused to 
solubility-enhancing peptides and characterization of their MIF-binding 
capacities.

Kok T(1), Wasiel AA(2), Dekker FJ(2), Poelarends GJ(2), Cool RH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Biology, Groningen Research 
Institute of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV, 
Groningen, The Netherlands; Faculty of Biotechnology, University of Surabaya, 
Jalan Raya Kalirungkut, Surabaya, 60292, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Biology, Groningen Research 
Institute of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Biology, Groningen Research 
Institute of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV, 
Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: r.h.cool@rug.nl.

The HLA class II histocompatibility antigen gamma chain, also known as HLA-DR 
antigen-associated invariant chain or CD74, has been shown to be involved in 
many biological processes amongst which antigen loading and transport of MHC 
class II molecules from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi complex. It is 
also part of a receptor complex for macrophage migration inhibitory factor 
(MIF), and participates in inflammatory signaling. The inhibition of MIF-CD74 
complex formation is regarded as a potentially attractive therapeutic target in 
inflammation, cancer and immune diseases. In order to be able to produce large 
quantities of the extracellular moiety of human CD74, which has been reported to 
be unstable and protease-sensitive, different constructs were made as fusions 
with two solubility enhancers: the well-known maltose-binding domain and Fh8, a 
small protein secreted by the parasite Fasciola hepatica. The fusion proteins 
could be purified with high yields from Escherichia coli and were demonstrated 
to be active in binding to MIF. Moreover, our results strongly suggest that the 
MIF binding site is located in the sequence between the transmembrane and the 
membrane-distal trimerisation domain of CD74, and comprises at least amino acids 
113-125 of CD74.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2018.03.008
PMID: 29601965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. Hum Mutat. 2009 May;30(5):787-94. doi: 10.1002/humu.20956.

Functional properties of missense variants of human tryptophan hydroxylase 2.

McKinney JA(1), Turel B, Winge I, Knappskog PM, Haavik J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, University of Bergen, Norway.

Tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) catalyzes the rate-limiting step in serotonin 
biosynthesis in the nervous system. Several variants of human TPH2 have been 
reported to be associated with a spectrum of neuropsychiatric disorders such as 
unipolar major depression, bipolar disorder, suicidality, and 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We used three different 
expression systems: rabbit reticulocyte lysate, Escherichia coli, and human 
embryonic kidney cells, to identify functional effects of all human TPH2 
missense variants reported to date. The properties of mutants affecting the 
regulatory domain, that is, p.Leu36Val, p.Leu36Pro, p.Ser41Tyr, and p.Arg55Cys, 
were indistinguishable from the wild-type (WT). Moderate loss-of-function 
effects were observed for mutants in the catalytic and oligomerization domains, 
that is, p.Pro206Ser, p.Ala328Val, p.Arg441His, and p.Asp479Glu, which were 
manifested via stability and solubility effects, whereas p.Arg303Trp had 
severely reduced solubility and was completely inactive. All variants were 
tested as substrates for protein kinase A and were found to have similar 
phosphorylation stoichiometries. A standardized assay protocol as described here 
for activity and solubility screening should also be useful for determining 
properties of other TPH2 variants that will be discovered in the future.

Copyright 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.20956
PMID: 19319927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1634. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2012 Sep;19(9):1526-31. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00238-12. Epub 
2012 Jul 25.

Protective immunity conferred by the C-terminal fragment of recombinant 
Pasteurella multocida toxin.

Lee J(1), Kang HE, Woo HJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. jeongminlee@snu.ac.kr

Pasteurella multocida serogroup D, producing P. multocida toxin (PMT), is a 
causative pathogen of progressive atrophic rhinitis (PAR) in swine. To evaluate 
the protective immunity and vaccination efficacy of the truncated form of PMT, a 
C-terminal form of recombinant PMT (designated PMT2.3; amino acid residues 505 
to 1285 of PMT) was expressed in an Escherichia coli expression system, and the 
humoral and cellular immune responses to PMT2.3 were investigated. PMT2.3 
vaccination in mice led to high levels of the anti-PMT antibody with a high 
neutralizing antibody titer. PMT2.3 also induced a cellular immune response to 
PMT, as demonstrated by the lymphocyte proliferation assay. Furthermore, strong 
protection against a homologous challenge with P. multocida was also observed in 
mice vaccinated with PMT2.3. In PMT2.3 vaccination in swine, high levels of 
serum antibody titers were observed in offspring from sows vaccinated with 
PMT2.3. Offspring from sows vaccinated with PMT2.3 or toxoid showed a good 
growth performance as depicted by mean body weight at the time of sacrifice, as 
well as in average daily gain in the postweaning period. Low levels of 
pathological lesions in turbinate atrophy and pneumonia were also observed in 
these offspring. Therefore, we consider PMT2.3--in the truncated and nontoxic 
recombinant PMT form--to be an attractive candidate for a subunit vaccine 
against PAR induced by P. multocida infection.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00238-12
PMCID: PMC3428383
PMID: 22837096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1635. Protein Expr Purif. 2006 Jun;47(2):599-606. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.11.021. Epub 
2005 Dec 20.

Highly efficient expression and purification system of small-size protein 
domains in Escherichia coli for biochemical characterization.

Bao WJ(1), Gao YG, Chang YG, Zhang TY, Lin XJ, Yan XZ, Hu HY.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, 
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China.

It is often essential to focus the study on the small-size domains of large 
proteins in eukaryotic cells in the post-genomic era, but the low expression 
level, insolubility, and instability of the domains have been continuing to 
hinder the massive purification of domain peptides for structural and biological 
investigation. In this work, a highly efficient expression and purification 
system based on a small-size fusion partner GB1 and histidine tag was utilized 
to solve these problems. Two vectors, namely pGBTNH and pGBH, were constructed 
to improve expression and facilitate purification. The linker and thrombin 
cleavage site have been optimized for minimal degradation during purification 
process. This system has been tested for eight domain peptides varying in size, 
linker, hydrophobicity, and predicted secondary structure. The results indicate 
that this system is achievable to produce these domain peptides with high 
solubility and stability for further biochemical characterization. Moreover, the 
fusion protein without the linker and thrombin cleavage site is also suitable 
for spectroscopic studies especially for NMR structural elucidation, if the 
target peptide is prone to precipitation or easily degraded during purification. 
This system will be beneficial to the research field of structure and function 
of small domain and peptide fragment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.11.021
PMID: 16427307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2010 Jun;17(6):930-6. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00493-09. Epub 2010 
Apr 21.

Vaccination of rabbits with an alkylated toxoid rapidly elicits potent 
neutralizing antibodies against botulinum neurotoxin serotype B.

Held DM(1), Shurtleff AC, Fields S, Green C, Fong J, Jones RG, Sesardic D, 
Buelow R, Burke RL.

Author information:
(1)Biosciences Division, SRI International, 333 Ravenswood Ave., Menlo Park, CA 
94025, USA.

New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits were immunized with several different nontoxic 
botulinum neurotoxin serotype B (BoNT/B) preparations in an effort to optimize 
the production of a rapid and highly potent, effective neutralizing antibody 
response. The immunogens included a recombinant heavy chain (rHc) protein 
produced in Escherichia coli, a commercially available formaldehyde-inactivated 
toxoid, and an alkylated toxoid produced by urea-iodoacetamide inactivation of 
the purified active toxin. All three immunogens elicited an antibody response to 
BoNT/B, detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and by toxin 
neutralization assay, by the use of two distinct mouse toxin challenge models. 
The induction period and the ultimate potency of the observed immune response 
varied for each immunogen, and the ELISA titer was not reliably predictive of 
the potency of toxin neutralization. The kinetics of the BoNT/B-specific binding 
immune response were nearly identical for the formaldehyde toxoid and alkylated 
toxoid immunogens, but immunization with the alkylated toxoid generated an 
approximately 10-fold higher neutralization potency that endured throughout the 
study, and after just 49 days, each milliliter of serum was capable of 
neutralizing 10(7) 50% lethal doses of the toxin. Overall, the immunization of 
rabbits with alkylated BoNT/B toxoid appears to have induced a neutralizing 
immune response more rapid and more potent than the responses generated by 
vaccination with formaldehyde toxoid or rHc preparations.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00493-09
PMCID: PMC2884417
PMID: 20410329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1637. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2007 Feb;47(1):121-5.

[Expression and immunogenic analysis for the tandem-arranged multiple mimic 
epitope gene of infectious bursal disease virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang YS(1), Fan HJ, Zhang XM, Li Y, Xiao HJ.

Author information:
(1)Military Medical Institute of Nanjing Command, Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention of Nanjing Command, Nanjing 210002, China. 
wangyongshan2001@yahoo.com.cn

Five mimic epitopes of Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) have been 
identified from a 12-mer phage-displayed peptide library by 5 monoclonal 
antibodies. Based on the sequences of the five epitopes, multiple epitope gene 
5epis was constructed by the five epitopes being tandemly arranged and linked 
with 4-peptide GGGS. The expression plasmid pET-5epis was constructed and 
successfully expressed in E. coli. The resultant protein of 5epis was called 
r5EPIS. The results from SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the proportion of r5EPIS 
was 15% of the total bacterial proteins and the molecular weight of r5EPIS was 
10kDa. By use of parallel immunoblotting test with corresponding monoclonal and 
polyclonal antibodies, the immunological specificity and reactivity of r5EPIS 
against IBDV have been verified. Rabbits were subcutaneously injected with 
r5EPIS (400 micro g per injection), twice with 7 days interval. The titers of 
the IBDV-specific antibody measured by indirect ELISA were up to 1:4000 at the 
7th day after first immunization and 1:256000 at the 14th day after the second 
immunization. To determine the protective ability of r5EPIS to the challenge of 
IBDV, chickens were injected intramuscularly with r5EPIS in adjuvant twice with 
7 days interval (501g per injection) and the resultant antibody titer was up to 
1:12800 at the 7'h day after the second immunonization. After challenge with 
200ELD50 of virulent IBDV GX8/99 strain, all the chicken in r5EPIS-immunized 
group were survived in contrast to the mortality of 86.7%(13/15) in adjuvant 
control group, suggesting that r5EPIS had a potent ability to generate 
protective immune response and it implied that the constructed gene 5epis is a 
prospective candidate for the development of epitope-based IBD vaccine.

PMID: 17436637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Jul;42(1):78-84. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.03.026. Epub 
2005 Apr 19.

Cloning and expression of Klebsiella phage K11 lysozyme gene.

Junn HJ(1), Youn J, Suh KH, Lee SS.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Bio-Medicinal Resources, Department of Life Science and 
Technology, Pai-Chai University, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Previously, the lysozyme gene of the Klebsiella phage K11 was partially 
sequenced in our lab. Using the sequence information the lysozyme gene of the 
Klebsiella phage K11 was amplified and cloned using the polymerase chain 
reaction of the pfu DNA polymerase. The nucleotide sequence of phage K11 
lysozyme gene was determined. The open reading frame corresponds to a 
polypeptide with 151 amino acids and molecular weight of 16,932 Da. The deduced 
amino acid sequence of this polypeptide shows 74-75% homologies to the T7 and T3 
phage lysozymes. Although the gene was efficiently expressed under the control 
of tac promoter in Escherichia coli XL1-blue cells at 37 degrees C, most of the 
K11 lysozyme produced was insoluble. When the temperature of cell growth was 
lowered, however, solubility of the K11 lysozyme was increased gradually. The 
insoluble protein expressed at 37 degrees C was solubilized in 5 M guanidine-HCl 
and refolded in the presence of oxido-shuffling agent (GSH/GSSG). Through the 
refolding process the recombinant lysozyme was solubilized and purified. The 
purified K11 lysozyme showed transcription inhibition of K11 RNA polymerase as 
well as amidase activity. These results showed that the lysozyme of 
bacteriophage K11 is a bifunctional protein that cuts a bond in the bacterial 
cell wall and selectively inhibits K11 phage RNA polymerase. Also, transcription 
inhibition ability of K11 lysozyme with T7 or SP6 phage RNA polymerase was 
measured. T7 RNA polymerase was less inhibited than K11 RNA polymerase by K11 
lysozyme. But SP6 RNA polymerase was not nearly inhibited by K11 lysozyme.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.03.026
PMID: 15882950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1639. Metab Eng. 2015 May;29:86-96. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2015.03.001. Epub 2015 Mar 
10.

Rational design of a synthetic Entner-Doudoroff pathway for improved and 
controllable NADPH regeneration.

Ng CY(1), Farasat I(1), Maranas CD(1), Salis HM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA 16802, United States.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA 16802, United States; Department of Biological Engineering, 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802, United States. 
Electronic address: salis@psu.edu.

NADPH is an essential cofactor for the biosynthesis of several high-value 
chemicals, including isoprenoids, fatty acid-based fuels, and biopolymers. 
Tunable control over all potentially rate-limiting steps, including the NADPH 
regeneration rate, is crucial to maximizing production titers. We have 
rationally engineered a synthetic version of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway from 
Zymomonas mobilis that increased the NADPH regeneration rate in Escherichia coli 
MG1655 by 25-fold. To do this, we combined systematic design rules, biophysical 
models, and computational optimization to design synthetic bacterial operons 
expressing the 5-enzyme pathway, while eliminating undesired genetic elements 
for maximum expression control. NADPH regeneration rates from genome-integrated 
pathways were estimated using a NADPH-binding fluorescent reporter and by the 
productivity of a NADPH-dependent terpenoid biosynthesis pathway. We designed 
and constructed improved pathway variants by employing the RBS Library 
Calculator to efficiently search the 5-dimensional enzyme expression space and 
by performing 40 cycles of MAGE for site-directed genome mutagenesis. 624 
pathway variants were screened using a NADPH-dependent blue fluorescent protein, 
and 22 were further characterized to determine the relationship between enzyme 
expression levels and NADPH regeneration rates. The best variant exhibited 
25-fold higher normalized mBFP levels when compared to wild-type strain. 
Combining the synthetic Entner-Doudoroff pathway with an optimized terpenoid 
pathway further increased the terpenoid titer by 97%.

Copyright © 2015 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2015.03.001
PMID: 25769287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2013 May;170(1):67-80. doi: 10.1007/s12010-013-0140-3. 
Epub 2013 Mar 8.

Expression and purification of biologically active human FGF2 containing the 
b'a' domains of human PDI in Escherichia coli.

Song JA(1), Koo BK, Chong SH, Kwak J, Ryu HB, Nguyen MT, Vu TT, Jeong B, Kim SW, 
Choe H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Bio-medical Institute of Technology, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul 138-736, South Korea.

Among the members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family that affect the 
growth, differentiation, migration, and survival of many cell types, FGF2 is the 
most abundant in the central nervous system. Because of its wound healing 
effects, FGF2 has potential as a therapeutic agent. The protein is also added to 
the culture media to maintain stem cells. Expression and purification procedures 
for FGF2 that are highly efficient and low cost have been intensively 
investigated for the past two decades. Our current study focuses on the 
purification of FGF2 fused with b'a' domains of human protein disulfide 
isomerase to elevate overexpression, solubility, and stability with a simplified 
experimental procedure using only ion exchange chromatography, as well as on the 
confirmation of the biological activity of FGF2 on fibroblast Balb/c 3T3 cells 
and hippocampal neural cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-013-0140-3
PMID: 23471584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1641. J Food Sci. 2017 May;82(5):1092-1100. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.13708. Epub 2017 
Apr 20.

Immunolocalization of Jian Carp (Cyprinus Carpio Var. Jian) Cathepsin B: 
Cloning, Expression, Characterization, and Antibody Preparation.

Li SH(1), Li R(1), Zhong HX(1), Chen XH(1), Liu AP(1), Yang J(1), Hu Q(1), Ke 
QQ(1), Li ML(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science, Sichuan Agricultural Univ., Ya'an, 625014, Sichuan, 
China.

Cathepsin B (CatB) cDNA of 759 bp from Jian carp (Cyprinus carpio var. Jian) 
with amino acid similarity of 99.6% to common carp was cloned. The mature CatB 
was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 transferred with vector CatB-pET-30a. It 
was purified and identified as a single band (29 kDa) on SDS-PAGE. Optimum CatB 
activity was observed at 40 °C and pH 5.5. Mouse anti-CatB polyclonal antibody 
with a high titer of 1:256000 was prepared successfully and shown to 
specifically recognize the antigen both in prokaryotic cells and in the tissues 
of Jian carp according to western blotting and immunohistochemistry results. 
Immunolocation analysis showed that CatB distribution at protein level varied 
among the tested tissues. The results presented in this study may provide a 
significant reference for future research on the inherent relationship between 
CatB and the quality of fish or fish products at both the gene and protein 
levels.

© 2017 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.13708
PMID: 28425565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1642. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Sep;34(9):818-823.

[Establishment of BV2 cell line with steady knockdown of Mg(2+)/Mn(2+)-dependent 
protein phosphatase 1A(PPM1A)].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang J(1), Zhang J(2), Xu T(3), Wang Y(4), Wang Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Ningxia Medical University, Department of Neurology, The General Hospital of 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Wuzhong City People's Hospital, Wuzhong 751100, 
China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The General Hospital of Ningxia Medical University, 
Yinchuan 750004, China.
(4)Cerebrospinal Fluid Research Laboratory, General Hospital of Ningxia 
University, Yinchuan 750004, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, The General Hospital of Ningxia Medical University, 
Yinchuan 750004; Cerebrospinal Fluid Research Laboratory, General Hospital of 
Ningxia University, Key Laboratory of Brain Diseases of Ningxia, Yinchuan 
750004, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: wangzhenhai1968@163.com.

Objective To construct a short hairpin RNA (shRNA) lentiviral of 
Mg2+/Mn2+-dependent protein phosphatase 1A (PPM1A) gene and establish mouse 
brain microglia cell line(BV2) which PPM1A was knocked down stably. Methods 
According to the Coding sequence (CDS) region of PPM1A gene, two pairs of short 
hairpin RNA (shRNA) sequences (shRNA1, shRNA2) were designed and cloned into 
GV493 vector, then it was transformed into competent Escherichia coli DH5α 
strain and cultured. The positive clones were picked for sequencing. Finally, 
lentiviral packaging and titer determination were performed. Two groups of 
lentiviruses were transfected into BV2 cells and screened with puromycin. 
Fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry were used to observe the expression 
of green fluorescent protein (GFP), and the expression of PPM1A were evaluated 
by RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. Results The PPM1A shRNA lentiviral 
expression vector was successfully constructed. The expression of GFP was more 
than 80%. Compared with the control group, the mRNA and protein levels of PPM1A 
were significantly decreased in shRNA1 and shRNA2 knockdown groups. Conclusion 
The PPM1A knockdown BV2 cell line was successfully constructed using the 
lentiviral shRNA.

PMID: 30463654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1643. Nat Biotechnol. 2002 Sep;20(9):927-32. doi: 10.1038/nbt732. Epub 2002 Aug 19.

Engineering soluble proteins for structural genomics.

Pédelacq JD(1), Piltch E, Liong EC, Berendzen J, Kim CY, Rho BS, Park MS, 
Terwilliger TC, Waldo GS.

Author information:
(1)Bioscience Division, MS-M888, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 
87545, USA.

Structural genomics has the ambitious goal of delivering three-dimensional 
structural information on a genome-wide scale. Yet only a small fraction of 
natural proteins are suitable for structure determination because of bottlenecks 
such as poor expression, aggregation, and misfolding of proteins, and 
difficulties in solubilization and crystallization. We propose to overcome these 
bottlenecks by producing soluble, highly expressed proteins that are derived 
from and closely related to their natural homologs. Here we demonstrate the 
utility of this approach by using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) folding 
reporter assay to evolve an enzymatically active, soluble variant of a 
hyperthermophilic protein that is normally insoluble when expressed in 
Escherichia coli, and determining its structure by X-ray crystallography. 
Analysis of the structure provides insight into the substrate specificity of the 
enzyme and the improved solubility of the variant.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt732
PMID: 12205510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1644. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2021 Oct;150:109862. doi: 
10.1016/j.enzmictec.2021.109862. Epub 2021 Jun 29.

Biosynthesis of 3'-O-methylisoorientin from luteolin by selecting 
O-methylation/C-glycosylation motif.

Gu N(1), Liu S(1), Qiu C(1), Zhao L(2), Pei J(3).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center of Efficient Processing and Utilization of 
Forest Resources, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, China; College of 
Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, China; Jiangsu Key 
Lab of Biomass-Based Green Fuels and Chemicals, Nanjing, China.
(2)Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center of Efficient Processing and Utilization of 
Forest Resources, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, China; College of 
Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, China; Jiangsu Key 
Lab of Biomass-Based Green Fuels and Chemicals, Nanjing, China. Electronic 
address: njfu2302@163.com.
(3)Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center of Efficient Processing and Utilization of 
Forest Resources, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, China; College of 
Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, China; Jiangsu Key 
Lab of Biomass-Based Green Fuels and Chemicals, Nanjing, China. Electronic 
address: peijj2000@sina.com.cn.

Glycosylation and methylation of flavonoids are the main types of structural 
modifications and can endow flavonoids with greater stability, bioactivity, and 
bioavailability. In this study, five types of O-methyltransferases were screened 
for producing O-methylated luteolin, and the biosynthesis strategy of 
3'-O-methylisoorientin from luteolin was determined. To improve the production 
of 3'-O-methylluteolin, the S-adenosyl-l-methionine synthesis pathway was 
reconstructed in the recombinant strain by introducing S-adenosyl-l-methionine 
synthetase genes. After optimizing the conversion conditions, maximal 
3'-O-methylluteolin production reached 641 ± 25 mg/L with a corresponding molar 
conversion of 76.5 %, which was the highest titer of methylated flavonoids 
reported to date in Escherichia coli. 3'-O-Methylluteolin (127 mg) was prepared 
from 250 mL of the broth by silica gel column chromatography and preparative 
HPLC with a yield of 79.4 %. Subsequently, we used the biocatalytic cascade of 
Gentiana triflora C-glycosyltransferase (Gt6CGT) and Glycine max sucrose 
synthase (GmSUS) to biosynthesize 3'-O-methylisoorientin from 
3'-O-methylluteolin in vitro. By optimizing the coupled reaction conditions and 
using the fed-batch operation, maximal 3'-O-methylisoorientin production reached 
226 ± 8 mg/L with a corresponding molar conversion of 98 %. Therefore, this 
study provides an efficient method for the production of novel 
3'-O-methylisoorientin and the biosynthesis strategy for methylated 
C-glycosylation flavonoids by selective O-methylation/C-glycosylation motif on 
flavonoids.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2021.109862
PMID: 34489021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1645. Hum Gene Ther. 2001 Jan 1;12(1):51-9. doi: 10.1089/104303401450960.

Retroviral expression of Escherichia coli thymidylate synthase cDNA confers 
high-level antifolate resistance to hematopoietic cells.

Shaw D(1), Berger FG, Spencer HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and the South Carolina Cancer Center 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.

Drug resistance gene therapy has the potential to protect against the 
myelosuppressive side effects of chemotherapy or to be used as a dominant in 
vivo selectable marker of genetically modified cells. Steady state kinetic 
studies have indicated the Escherichia coli thymidylate synthase (ecTS) is 
intrinsically more resistant to several TS-directed inhibitors as compared with 
the human enzyme, suggesting that ecTS is suitable for use as a drug-resistant 
marker. However, we found a disparity between the kinetic properties of ecTS and 
the degree of resistance conferred to cells transfected with the cDNA encoding 
this enzyme. It was determined that although ecTS is as stable as human TS (hTS) 
in transfected mammalian cells, ecTS is produced at only 40% the level of hTS, 
indicating poor translation of ecTS in eukaryotic cells. To circumvent this 
problem, the entire cDNA sequence of ecTS was synthesized by using codons 
optimized for expression in mammalian cells. In transfected Chinese hamster lung 
cells, expression of ecTS from the optimized construct, termed OPTecTS, is as 
efficient as hTS. Furthermore, cells transfected with the OPTecTS cDNA are 
significantly more resistant to the TS inhibitor raltitrexed as compared with 
transfected cells expressing similar levels of hTS. High-titer retroviral 
packaging cells were generated with OPTecTS and >80% of transduced mouse 
hematopoietic progenitor cells are resistant to raltitrexed, Thymitaq, and U89 
at concentrations that eliminated colony growth of mock-transduced cells. The 
transgene was detectable by PCR in transduced bone marrow selected in U89 or 
raltitrexed, and expression of ecTS from the OPTecTS cDNA in bone marrow 
exhibited a catalytic rate constant comparable to that of purified recombinant 
ecTS. These data indicate that OPTecTS is a viable dominant selectable marker 
that can confer resistance to antifolates when introduced into cells.

DOI: 10.1089/104303401450960
PMID: 11177542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1646. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2009 Jul;25(7):1082-7.

[Expression, purification and immunogenicity analysis of HPV type 18 virus-like 
particles from Escherichia coli].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie M(1), Li S, Shen W, Li Z, Zhuang Y, Mo X, Gu Y, Wu T, Zhang J, Xia N.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diagnostics and Vaccine Development in Infectious 
Diseases, Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Cell Biology and Tumor 
Cell Engineering, School of Life Science, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, 
China.

Here, we presented a method to bacterially express the major structural protein 
L1 of Human Papillomavirus type 18 (HPV18) as soluble form. We found that the 
purified L1 could self-assemble to virus-like particles (VLPs). Further, we 
investigated the immunogenicity and the induced level of neutralizing antibody 
using these VLPs. First, the genome of HPV18 was cloned from a patient in 
Xiamen. It was used as template for PCR amplification of HPV18 L1 gene. The 
resultant DNA fragment was inserted into expression vector pTrxFus and expressed 
in Escherichia coli GI724. Second, L1 protein was purified by ammonium sulfate 
precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography and hydrophobic interaction 
chromatography; and the purified L1 was subjected to self-assembly to form VLPs 
with the removal of premixed reductant DTT. Finally, the size and morphology of 
these VLPs was investigated by Dynamic Light Scattering and Transmission 
Electronic Microscopy as 29.34 nm in hydrated radius and globular particles 
similar with native HPV18. The half effective dosage (ED50) and maximum level of 
neutralizing antibody elicitation were measured by vaccinations on mice, rabbit 
and goat using pseudovirus neutralization cell model. The results showed that 
the ED50 of HPV18 VLPs is 0.006 microg in mice, and the maximum titer of 
neutralizing antibody elicited in rabbit and goat is up to 10(7). As a 
conclusion, we can provide HPV18 VLPs with highly immunogenicity from prokaryote 
expression system, which may pave a new way for research and development of 
prophylactic vaccine for HPV18.

PMID: 19835152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1647. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Apr;34(2):190-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.12.014.

A general procedure for the purification of human beta-secretase expressed in 
Escherichia coli.

Sardana V(1), Xu B, Zugay-Murphy J, Chen Z, Sardana M, Darke PL, Munshi S, Kuo 
LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Merck Research Laboratories, West Point, PA 
19486, USA. vinod_sardana@merck.com

Expression and purification of human beta-secretase (BACE1) in bacteria have 
been plagued with issues concerning solubility, inhomogeneous N-terminus, and 
lack of enzymic activity. Several forms of the mature human BACE1 have been 
expressed in Escherichia coli with different N-terminal extensions and without 
the C-terminus transmembrane domain. Although each of the proteins expresses in 
inclusion bodies, a generalized protocol has been developed to solubilize, 
refold, and purify these BACE1 variants. The resultant proteins are homogeneous 
and monodispersed in solution. Each possesses a unique N-terminus. Activity 
assays using the peptide substrate 
7-methoxycoumarin-4-yl-SEVNLDAEFK-2,4-dinitrophenyl-RR, corresponding to the 
beta-secretase cleavage sequence in the amyloid precursor protein with the 
Swedish mutations of N(670)L(671) substituting for the residues K(670)M(671), 
reveal a kcat and KM of 9.3 min(-1) and 55 microM, respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2003.12.014
PMID: 15003250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1648. Protein Sci. 2009 Jul;18(7):1552-63. doi: 10.1002/pro.150.

Mutations of key hydrophobic surface residues of 11 beta-hydroxysteroid 
dehydrogenase type 1 increase solubility and monodispersity in a bacterial 
expression system.

Lawson AJ(1), Walker EA, White SA, Dafforn TR, Stewart PM, Ride JP.

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, United 
Kingdom.

11 beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11 beta-HSD1) is a key enzyme in 
the conversion of cortisone to the functional glucocorticoid hormone cortisol. 
This activation has been implicated in several human disorders, notably the 
metabolic syndrome where 11 beta-HSD1 has been identified as a novel target for 
potential therapeutic drugs. Recent crystal structures have revealed the 
presence of a pronounced hydrophobic surface patch lying on two helices at the 
C-terminus. The physiological significance of this region has been attributed to 
facilitating substrate access by allowing interactions with the endoplasmic 
reticulum membrane. Here, we report that single mutations that alter the 
hydrophobicity of this patch (I275E, L266E, F278E, and L279E in the human enzyme 
and I275E, Y266E, F278E, and L279E in the guinea pig enzyme) result in greatly 
increased yields of soluble protein on expression in E. coli. Kinetic analyses 
of both reductase and dehydrogenase reactions indicate that the F278E mutant has 
unaltered K(m) values for steroids and an unaltered or increased k(cat). 
Analytical ultracentrifugation shows that this mutation also decreases 
aggregation of both the human and guinea pig enzymes, resulting in greater 
monodispersity. One of the mutants (guinea pig F278E) has proven easy to 
crystallize and has been shown to have a virtually identical structure to that 
previously reported for the wild-type enzyme. The human F278E enzyme is shown to 
be a suitable background for analyzing the effects of naturally occurring 
mutations (R137C, K187N) on enzyme activity and stability. Hence, the F278E 
mutants should be useful for many future biochemical and biophysical studies of 
the enzyme.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.150
PMCID: PMC2775222
PMID: 19507261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1649. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2019 Apr 1;12:74. doi: 10.1186/s13068-019-1416-9. 
eCollection 2019.

Expression and secretion of a lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase by a 
fast-growing cyanobacterium.

Russo DA(1), Zedler JAZ(1), Wittmann DN(1), Möllers B(2), Singh RK(3), Batth 
TS(4), van Oort B(5), Olsen JV(4), Bjerrum MJ(3), Jensen PE(1).

Author information:
(1)1Copenhagen Plant Science Centre, Department of Plant and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.
(2)2Department of Geosciences and Natural Resource Management, University of 
Copenhagen, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.
(3)3Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)4Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)5Biophysics of Photosynthesis, Department of Physics and Astronomy, Faculty 
of Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Cyanobacteria have the potential to become next-generation cell 
factories due to their ability to use CO2, light and inorganic nutrients to 
produce a range of biomolecules of commercial interest. Synechococcus elongatus 
UTEX 2973, in particular, is a fast-growing, genetically tractable, 
cyanobacterium that has garnered attention as a potential biotechnological 
chassis. To establish this unique strain as a host for heterologous protein 
production, we aimed to demonstrate expression and secretion of the industrially 
relevant TfAA10A, a lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase from the Gram-positive 
bacterium Thermobifida fusca.
RESULTS: Two variations of TfAA10A were successfully expressed in S. elongatus 
UTEX 2973: One containing the native N-terminal, Sec-targeted, signal peptide 
and a second with a Tat-targeted signal peptide from the Escherichia coli 
trimethylamine-N-oxide reductase (TorA). Although the TorA signal peptide 
correctly targeted the protein to the plasma membrane, the majority of the 
TorA-TfAA10A was found unprocessed in the plasma membrane with a small fraction 
of the mature protein ultimately translocated to the periplasm. The native Sec 
signal peptide allowed for efficient secretion of TfAA10A into the medium with 
virtually no protein being found in the cytosol, plasma membrane or periplasm. 
TfAA10A was demonstrated to be correctly cleaved and active on the model 
substrate phosphoric acid swollen cellulose. Additionally, expression and 
secretion only had a minor impact on cell growth. The secretion yield was 
estimated at 779 ± 40 µg L-1 based on densitometric analysis. To our knowledge, 
this is the highest secretion yield ever registered in cyanobacteria.
CONCLUSIONS: We have shown for the first time high-titer expression and 
secretion of an industrially relevant and catalytically active enzyme in S. 
elongatus UTEX 2973. This proof-of-concept study will be valuable for the 
development of novel and sustainable applications in the fields of 
bioremediation and biocatalysis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-019-1416-9
PMCID: PMC6442416
PMID: 30976324

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1650. Biotechnol Prog. 2012 Mar-Apr;28(2):421-7. doi: 10.1002/btpr.1518. Epub 2012 Feb 
10.

Inclusion bodies of fuculose-1-phosphate aldolase as stable and reusable 
biocatalysts.

Sans C(1), García-Fruitós E, Ferraz RM, González-Montalbán N, Rinas U, 
López-Santín J, Villaverde A, Álvaro G.

Author information:
(1)Dept. d'Enginyeria Química, Escola d'Enginyeria, Unitat de Biocatàlisi 
Aplicada Associada al IQAC (CSIC), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Edifici Q, 
08193 Bellaterra, Spain.

Fuculose-1-phosphate aldolase (FucA) has been produced in Escherichia coli as 
active inclusion bodies (IBs) in batch cultures. The activity of insoluble FucA 
has been modulated by a proper selection of producing strain, culture media, and 
process conditions. In some cases, when an optimized defined medium was used, 
FucA IBs were more active (in terms of specific activity) than the soluble 
protein version obtained in the same process with a conventional defined medium, 
supporting the concept that solubility and conformational quality are 
independent protein parameters. FucA IBs have been tested as biocatalysts, 
either directly or immobilized into Lentikat beads, in an aldolic reaction 
between DHAP and (S)-Cbz-alaninal, obtaining product yields ranging from 65 to 
76%. The production of an active aldolase as IBs, the possibility of tailoring 
IBs properties by both genetic and process approaches, and the reusability of 
IBs by further entrapment in appropriate matrices fully support the principle of 
using self-assembled enzymatic clusters as tunable mechanically stable and 
functional biocatalysts.

Copyright © 2012 American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE).

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.1518
PMID: 22275283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2016 Aug 25;32(8):1124-1132. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.150474.

[Prokaryotic expression and purification of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii 
intraflagellar transport protein 46(IFT46) and preparation of polyclonal 
antibody].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ren H(1), Dong B(1), Fan Z(1)(2)(3), Meng D(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Food Nutrition and Safety, Ministry of Education, College 
of Food Science and Biotechnology, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, 
Tianjin 300457, China.
(2)International Research Center of Tianjin for Food Nutrition and Safety and 
Medicinal Chemical, Tianjin 300457, China.
(3)The New Rural Development Research Institute of Tianjin University of Science 
& Technology, Tianjin 300457, China.

IFT46 is one of the important components of intraflagellar transport complex B 
in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and plays important roles in the assembly, 
movement and perception of ciliary. To study its functional mechanism, a 
GST-tagged and an MBP-tagged prokaryotic expression plasmid, pGEX-2T-ift46 and 
pMAL-C2X-ift46 were constructed, respectively, by inserting ift46 into the 
pGEX-2T and pMAL-C2X vector, and then transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 
(DE3) for protein expression. SDS-PAGE (15%) analysis results showed that the 
molecular weights of the fusion protein GST-IFT46 and MBP-IFT46 were 70 kDa and 
86 kDa, respectively. We used the fusion protein GST-IFT46 purified by affinity 
adsorption purification (more than 95% purity) for immunity to New Zealand white 
rabbits. The 5th immune serum was collected and the antibody titer was 
determined to be 256 000 by ELISA. The antiserum was purified by Protein A 
affinity adsorption purification and immobilized MBP-IFT46 purification, and the 
specificity of polyclonal antibodies was evaluated by Western blotting and 
immunofluorescence. Results showed that the polyclonal antibody prepared could 
specifically and precisely bind IFT46 in C. reinhardtii, and IFT46 was mainly 
concentrated at basal body regions and few localized along the entire length of 
the flagellum as punctuated dots, which will make a foundation to further study 
the mechanism of IFT46 in cilia related diseases such as obesity, diabetes and 
polycystic kidney disease.

Publisher: IFT46 是纤毛内运输蛋白IFT 复合物B (IFT-B) 
的一个重要组分，对于纤毛的组装、运动和感知发挥着重要作用。为深入研究IFT46 的作用机制，利用ift46 基因全序列分别构建了带有GST 和MBP 
标签的原核表达载体pGEX-2T-ift46 和pMAL-C2X-ift46，并转入大肠杆菌BL21 (DE3) 诱导表达，以15% SDS-PAGE 
鉴定，分别获得了分子量为70、86 kDa 的重组GST/MBP-IFT46 融合蛋白。将亲和纯化的GST-IFT46 融合蛋白 (纯度95%以上) 
免疫新西兰大白兔，采集第5 次免疫后血清用ELISA 测定效价为1∶256 000。抗血清依次经Protein A和固定在MBP-IFT46 
纯化后，用Western blotting 和免疫荧光检测抗体特异性，结果表明制备的多克隆抗体能很好地识别莱茵衣藻中的IFT46，而且发现IFT46 
绝大部分定位在纤毛基体，极少部分沿纤毛呈点状分布，为继续开展 IFT46 在肥胖症、糖尿病、多囊肾病等纤毛相关疾病中作用机制的研究奠定了重要基础。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.150474
PMID: 29022313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1652. Anal Biochem. 2006 Oct 15;357(2):289-98. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2006.07.027. Epub 
2006 Aug 10.

Thermofluor-based high-throughput stability optimization of proteins for 
structural studies.

Ericsson UB(1), Hallberg BM, Detitta GT, Dekker N, Nordlund P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Stockholm University, Stockholm 
SE-109 51, Sweden.

Production of proteins well suited for structural studies is inherently 
difficult and time-consuming. Protein sample homogeneity, stability, and 
solubility are strongly correlated with the proteins' probability of yielding 
crystals, and optimization of these properties will improve success rates of 
crystallization. In the current study, we applied the thermofluor method as a 
high-throughput approach for identifying optimal protein formulation for 
crystallization. The method also allowed optimal stabilizing buffer compositions 
to be rapidly identified for each protein. Furthermore, the method allowed the 
identification of potential ligands, physiological or non-physiological, that 
can be used in subsequent crystallization trials. For this study, the thermally 
induced melting points were determined in different buffers as well as with 
additives for a total of 25 Escherichia coli proteins. Crystallization trials 
were set up together with stabilizing and destabilizing additives identified 
using thermofluor screening. A twofold increase in the number of crystallization 
leads was observed when the proteins were cocrystallized with stabilizing 
additives as compared with experiments without these additives. This suggests 
that thermofluor constitutes an efficient generic high-throughput method for 
identification of protein properties predictive of crystallizability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2006.07.027
PMID: 16962548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. Mol Med Rep. 2015 Nov;12(5):7712-20. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2015.4369. Epub 2015 Sep 
25.

Preparation and preliminary application of monoclonal antibodies to the receptor 
binding region of Clostridium difficile toxin B.

Chen W(1), Liu WE(1), Li YM(1), Luo S(1), Zhong YM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan 410008, P.R. China.

A previous nationwide Chinese epidemiological study revealed through isolation 
of A‑B+ Clostridium difficile strains, which produce toxin B (TcdB), but not 
toxin A TcdA, that the strains are widespread and more frequent in east Asian 
countries,. The development of a process capable of detecting TcdB is required 
in microbiological laboratories in order to facilitate the control of the A‑B+ 
C. difficile strains, however, no diagnostic reagents have been developed to 
date. The aim of the present study was to prepare monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) 
targeting the receptor binding region of TcdB (CDB3), and to establish a 
double‑antibody sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ds‑ELISA), which can 
be used for the diagnosis of C. difficile infection. The recombinant protein, 
glutathione S transferase (GST)‑CDB3 was expressed and purified using an 
Escherichia coli system. BALB/c mice were immunized with GST‑CDB3 recombinant 
protein. A hybridoma technique was used for the production of anti‑CDB3 mAb. The 
hybridoma clones were then screened using indirect ELISA, and anti‑CDB3 mAb was 
produced in the ascites of the BALB/c mice. Isotyping of anti‑CDB3 mAb was 
performed using an SBA Clonotyping system/horseradish peroxidase (HRP) ELISA 
kit. Protein G affinity chromatography was used for purification of anti‑CDB3 
mAbs, and the titer and specificity of the anti‑CDB3 mAbs were assessed using 
indirect ELISA and western blot analysis, respectively. The ds‑ELISA was 
established using HRP‑labeled anti‑CDB3 mAbd, which were used to detect TcdB 
clinically in diarrhea stools. A total of five stable hybridoma cell clones 
(1E7B, 1F8D3, 2F8A6, 3B6F1 and 4A4G2) producing anti‑CDB3 mAb were established. 
The results of the present study indicated that the immunoglobulin (Ig)G isotype 
was predominant, as 1E7B2 IgG1 (λ), 2F8A6 IgG2a (κ) and 4A4G2 IgG1 (κ). In 
addition, the highest titer of anti‑CDB3 mAb (2F8A6 and 4A4G2) was 1:51,200. 
Western blotting revealed that the 2F8A6 and 4A4G2 mAbs recognized the CDB3 
protein specifically. Following anti‑CDB3 mAb (4A4G2) HRP‑labeling, the optimal 
working concentration was confirmed to be 1:400, and the concentration of coated 
antibody (2F8A6) was 20 µg/ml. The sensitivity of the ds‑ELISA was 73.33% for 
the A+B+ toxigenic C. difficile strains, and 86.67% for the A‑B+ toxigenic C. 
difficile strains, with a specificity of 100% for all. In conclusion, the 
present study successfully developed novel mAbs specific to CDB3, and developed 
a ds-ELISA kit with high specificity and sensitivity for the rapid detection of 
TcdB. This offers a useful tool for the diagnostic assessment of TcdB.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2015.4369
PMID: 26459027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1654. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2016 
Jun;34(3):189-95.

[Secretion and Distribution of Rhoptry Protein 16 during Toxoplasma gondii 
Invasion into Host Cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang SC, Wei HX, He C, Deng SQ, Xia J, Peng HJ.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the secretion and localization of Toxoplasma gondii 
Rhoptry protein 16 （ROP16） during invasion of different strains of T. gondii 
into host cells.
METHODS: The Tgrop16 gene was amplified by PCR on the cDNA of T. gondii RH 
strain, subcloned into the plasmid pET-32a（+）, and expressed in Escherichia coli 
BL21（DE3） under the induction of isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside. New 
Zealand rabbit was immuned with the expressed recombinant protein TgROP16 to 
produce polyclonal anti-TgROP16 antibody. The specificity and sensitivity of the 
polyclonal antibody were examined by Western blotting and indirect ELISA, 
respectively. The transcriptional and protein levels of Tgrop16 in T. gondii RH 
strain and Pru strain were determined by real-time PCR and Western blotting, 
respectively. The secretion and distribution of TgROP16 in human foreskin 
fibroblasts (HFFs) during the invasion by T. gondii RH strain and Pru strain 
were examined by indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA).
RESULTS: Western blotting showed a specific band at M(r) of ～100 000, indicating 
that the specific rabbit-derived anti-TgROP16 polyclonal antibody was capable of 
recognizing TgROP16. Indirect ELISA revealed a titer of 1:25 600 for the 
antibody. The relative expression level of Tgrop16 in Pru strain［（7.786±0.206）］ 
was 7 times than that in RH strain［（1.000±0.110）］（P<0.05） as detected by 
real-time PCR, and TgROP16 protein level was higher in RH strain than in Pru 
strain. IFA showed that TgROP16 was localized on the apical complex of the 
unrecruited tachyzoite of T. gondii before invasion and was secreted out of the 
recruited tachyzoite after invasion.
CONCLUSION: The anti-TgROP16 polyclonal antibody has high specificity and 
sensitivity. The TgROP16 protein level is higher in the RH strain than in the 
Pru strain. For both strains, TgROP16 is localized on the apical complex of the 
unrecruited tachyzoite before invasion and secreted out of the recruited 
tachyzoite during invasion.

PMID: 30124276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. Virus Res. 2001 Nov 5;79(1-2):27-37. doi: 10.1016/s0168-1702(01)00281-7.

Expression of the simian varicella virus glycoprotein E.

Gray WL(1), Mullis LB, Soike KF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Arkansas for Medical 
Sciences, 4301 West Markham Street, Slot 511, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA. 
graywayne1@exchange.uams.edu

Simian varicella virus (SVV) is closely related to human varicella-zoster virus 
(VZV) and induces a varicella-like disease in nonhuman primates. The SVV genome 
encodes a glycoprotein E (gE) which is homologous to the gE of VZV and other 
alphaherpesviruses. The SVV gE was expressed in Escherichia coli and rabbits 
were immunized with the recombinant gE fusion proteins to generate polyclonal gE 
antiserum. Immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation analyses demonstrated that 
the SVV gE is expressed on the surface and within SVV-infected cells. The gE is 
also expressed on SVV virions as indicated by serum neutralization assay. The 
mature SVV gE is glycosylated and is similar in size ( approximately 100 kd) to 
the mature VZV gE. Immunohistochemical analysis detected gE within skin vesicles 
and lung tissue of SVV-infected monkeys. Analysis of the humoral immune response 
to gE in an SVV-infected monkey determined that anti-gE antibody is induced as 
early as day 9 postinfection and persists at high titer for longer than 4 
months. The simian varicella model offers an opportunity to investigate the role 
of gE in viral pathogenesis and immunity and to evaluate its potential as a 
varicella vaccine.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(01)00281-7
PMID: 11551643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1656. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Feb;94:33-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.10.018. Epub 2013 
Nov 6.

Tyrosine decarboxylase from Lactobacillus brevis: soluble expression and 
characterization.

Zhang K(1), Ni Y(2).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China. Electronic 
address: yni@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Tyrosine decarboxylase (TDC, EC 4.1.1.25) is an enzyme that catalyzes the 
decarboxylation of l-tyrosine to produce tyramine and CO2. In this study, a 
1881-bp tdc gene from Lactobacillus brevis was cloned and heterologously 
expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). Glucose was discovered to play an 
important role in the soluble expression of rLbTDC. After optimization, 
recombinant TDC (rLbTDC) was achieved in excellent solubility and a yield of 
224mg rLbTDC/L broth. The C-terminal His-Tagged rLbTDC was one-step purified 
with 90% recovery. Based on SDS-PAGE and gel filtration analysis, rLbTDC is a 
dimer composed of two identical subunits of approximately 70kDa. Using 
l-tyrosine as substrate, the specific activity of rLbTDC was determined to be 
133.5U/mg in the presence of 0.2mM pyridoxal-5'-phosphate at 40°C and pH 5.0. 
The Km and Vmax values of rLbTDC were 0.59mM and 147.1μmolmin(-1)mg(-1), 
respectively. In addition to l-tyrosine, rLbTDC also exhibited decarboxylase 
activity towards l-DOPA. This study has demonstrated, for the first time, the 
soluble expression of tdc gene from L. brevis in heterologous host.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.10.018
PMID: 24211777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1657. ACS Nano. 2019 Sep 24;13(9):9895-9906. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.9b03631. Epub 2019 
Jul 31.

Synthetic Multienzyme Complexes, Catalytic Nanomachineries for Cascade 
Biosynthesis In Vivo.

Qu J, Cao S, Wei Q, Zhang H, Wang R(1), Kang W, Ma T(2), Zhang L(1), Liu T(2), 
Wing-Ngor Au S, Sun F(3), Xia J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences , City University of Hong Kong , Kowloon , 
Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Combinatorial Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery, Ministry of 
Education and School of Pharmaceutical Sciences , Wuhan University , Wuhan 
430071 , China.
(3)Center for Biological Imaging, Core Facilities for Protein Science, Institute 
of Biophysics, CAS, Beijing, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, China;National Key Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, CAS Center for 
Excellence in Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics , Chinese Academy of 
Sciences , Beijing 100101 , China.

Multienzyme complexes, or metabolons, are assemblies or clusters of sequential 
enzymes that naturally exist in metabolic pathways. These nanomachineries 
catalyze the conversion of metabolites more effectively than the freely floating 
enzymes by minimizing the diffusion of intermediates in vivo. Bioengineers have 
devised synthetic versions of multienzyme complexes in cells to synergize 
heterologous biosynthesis, to improve intracellular metabolic flux, and to 
achieve higher titer of valuable chemical products. Here, we utilized orthogonal 
protein reactions (SpyCatcher/SpyTag and SnoopCatcher/SnoopTag pairs) to 
covalently assemble three key enzymes in the mevalonate biosynthesis pathway and 
showed 5-fold increase of lycopene and 2-fold increase of astaxanthin production 
in Escherichia coli. The multienzyme complexes are ellipsoidal nanostructures 
with hollow interior space and uniform thickness and shapes. Intracellular 
covalent enzyme assembly has yielded catalytic nanomachineries that drastically 
enlarged the flux of carotenoid biosynthesis in vivo. These studies also 
deepened our understanding on the complexity of hierarchical enzyme assembly in 
vivo.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.9b03631
PMID: 31356751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1658. Mol Ther. 2000 Aug;2(2):147-52. doi: 10.1006/mthe.2000.0111.

Adeno-associated virus mediates long-term gene transfer and delivery of 
chondroprotective IL-4 to murine synovium.

Watanabe S(1), Imagawa T, Boivin GP, Gao G, Wilson JM, Hirsch R.

Author information:
(1)William S. Rowe Division of Rheumatology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.

Treatments for rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory arthropathies are 
often ineffective at preventing joint destruction. Long-term genetic 
modification of the cells lining the joint space (synoviocytes) in vivo 
represents a potential method for the treatment of these chronic conditions. 
However, a vector capable of efficiently transducing synoviocytes in vivo for a 
persistent period has not been available. The present report describes the 
genetic modification of synoviocytes in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated 
virus. High-titer adeno-associated virus encoding the gene for Escherichia coli 
beta-galactosidase was injected into the knee joints of mice. Synovial tissues 
were then examined for beta-galactosidase transgene expression by in situ 
staining and by fluorometry. High-efficiency, persistent transgene expression 
was observed in the synovium with no evidence of vector-induced inflammation. 
Expression was observed for at least 7 months and was higher in arthritic than 
nonarthritic mice. Gene transfer of murine IL-4 to the joints of mice with 
collagen-induced arthritis led to detectable levels of IL-4 in the joint and 
protection from articular cartilage destruction. These data suggest that 
adeno-associated virus may be a useful vector for gene delivery to the synovium 
for the treatment of inflammatory arthropathies.

DOI: 10.1006/mthe.2000.0111
PMID: 10947942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. J Biochem. 2006 May;139(5):881-5. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvj101.

Mutations of ferritin H chain C-terminus produced by nucleotide insertions have 
altered stability and functional properties.

Ingrassia R(1), Gerardi G, Biasiotto G, Arosio P.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Materno Infantile e Tecnologie Biomediche, Università di 
Brescia, A.O. Spedali Civili, Viale Europa 11, 25123 Brescia, Italy.

Ferritin is an iron storage protein made of 24 subunits. Previous mutational 
analyses showed that ferritin C-terminal region has a major role in protein 
stability and assembly but is only marginally involved in the mechanism of iron 
incorporation. However, it has recently been shown that patients who carry 
alterations of ferritin C-terminal sequence caused by nucleotide insertions show 
neurological disorders possibly related to altered protein functionality and 
cellular iron deregulation. To re-evaluate the role of this region, five mutants 
of mouse H-ferritin were produced by 2-nucleotide insertions that modified the 
last 6-29 residues and extended the sequence of 14 amino acids. The mutants were 
expressed in Escherichia coli and analysed for solubility, stability and 
capacity to incorporate iron. The alteration of the last 6-residue non-helical 
extension had no evident effect on the properties of ferritin, while solubility 
and capacity to assemble in ferritin shells decreased progressively with the 
extension of the modified region. The results also showed that the modification 
of even a part of the terminal E-helix abolished the capacity of ferritin to 
incorporate iron during expression in the cells, probably caused by 
conformational modification of the hydrophobic channels. The data support the 
hypothesis that the pathogenic mutations alter cellular iron homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvj101
PMID: 16751596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1660. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Nov;38(1):136-44. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.07.012.

Purification, folding, and characterization of Rec12 (Spo11) meiotic recombinase 
of fission yeast.

Wu H(1), Gao J, Sharif WD, Davidson MK, Wahls WP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA.

Meiotic recombination is initiated by controlled dsDNA breaks (DSBs). Rec12 
(Spo11) protein of fission yeast is essential for the formation of meiotic DSBs 
in vivo, for meiotic recombination, and for segregation of chromosomes during 
meiosis I. Rec12 is orthologous to Top6A topoisomerase of Archaea and is likely 
the catalytic subunit of a meiotic recombinase that introduces recombinogenic 
DSBs. However, despite intensive effort, it has not been possible to produce 
Rec12 protein in a soluble form required to permit biochemical analyses of 
function. To obtain purified Rec12 protein for in vitro studies, a rec12(+) cDNA 
was generated, cloned into vector pET15b(+), and expressed in Escherichia coli. 
Rec12 protein was produced at moderate levels and it partitioned into insoluble 
fractions of whole-cell extracts. The protein was enriched based upon its 
differential solubility in two different denaturants and was further purified by 
column chromatography. A combinatorial, fractional, factorial approach was used 
to identify conditions under which Rec12 protein could be refolded. Four 
parameters were most important and, following optimization, soluble Rec12 
protein was obtained. Gel filtration demonstrated that refolded Rec12 protein 
exists as a monomer in solution, suggesting that additional proteins may be 
required to assemble biologically-active Rec12 dimers, as inferred previously 
from genetic data [Cell Chromosome 1 (2002) 1]. The production of refolded Rec12 
in a soluble form will allow for characterization in vitro of this key meiotic 
recombination enzyme.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.07.012
PMCID: PMC3127416
PMID: 15477092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2021 Dec;13(6):1780-1789. doi: 
10.1007/s12602-021-09797-1. Epub 2021 May 20.

Expression of Antimicrobial Peptide (AMP), Cecropin B, in a Fused Form to SUMO 
Tag With or Without Three-Glycine Linker in Escherichia coli and Evaluation of 
Bacteriolytic Activity of the Purified AMP.

Park AR(1), Kim SW(1), Kim SY(2), Kwon KC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Andong National University, Andong, Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Andong National University, Andong, Korea. 
kimsy@anu.ac.kr.
(3)MicroSynbiotiX Ltd, 11011 N Torrey Pines Rd Ste #135, La Jolla, CA, 92037, 
USA. kwang-chul.kwon@microsynbiotix.com.

Current antibiotics have limited action mode, which makes it difficult for the 
antibiotics dealing with the emergence of bacteria resisting the existing 
antibiotics. As a need for new bacteriolytic agents alternative to the 
antibiotics, AMPs have long been considered substitutes for the antibiotics. 
Cecropin B was expressed in a fusion form to six-histidine and SUMO tags in 
Escherichia coli. Six-histidine tag attached to SUMO was for purification of 
SUMO-cecropin B fusion proteins and removal of the SUMO tag from cecropin B. 
Chimeric gene was constructed into pKSEC1 vector that was designed to be 
functional in both Escherichia coli and chloroplast. To maximize translation of 
the fusion protein, sequences were codon-optimized. Four different constructs 
were tested for the level of expression and solubility, and the construct with a 
linker, 6xHisSUMO3xGly-cecropin B, showed the highest expression. In addition, 
cleavage of the SUMO tag by SUMOase in the three fusion constructs which have no 
linker sequence (3xGly, three glycines) was not as efficient as the construct 
with the linker between SUMO and cecropin B. The cleaved cecropin B showed 
bacteriolytic activity against Bacillus subtilis at a concentration of 
0.0625 μg/μL, while cecropin B fused to SUMO had no activity at a higher 
concentration, 0.125 μg/μL. As an expression system for AMPs in prokaryotic 
hosts, the use of tag proteins and appropriate codon-optimization strategy can 
be employed and further genetic modification of the fusion construct should help 
the complete removal of the tag proteins from the AMP in the final step of 
purification.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-021-09797-1
PMCID: PMC8578067
PMID: 34018140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests


1662. AMB Express. 2022 Feb 12;12(1):18. doi: 10.1186/s13568-022-01355-4.

Specific anti-SARS-CoV-2 S1 IgY-scFv is a promising tool for recognition of the 
virus.

Ge S(1)(2), Wu R(1), Zhou T(3), Liu X(1), Zhu J(3), Zhang X(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Science and Engineering, Shaanxi University of 
Technology, Hanzhong, China.
(2)Centre of Molecular and Environmental Biology, Department of Biology, 
University of Minho, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057, Braga, Portugal.
(3)Huadong Medical Institute of Biotechniques, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(4)School of Biological Science and Engineering, Shaanxi University of 
Technology, Hanzhong, China. zhang@bio.uminho.pt.
(5)Centre of Molecular and Environmental Biology, Department of Biology, 
University of Minho, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057, Braga, Portugal. 
zhang@bio.uminho.pt.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Ontario Veterinary College, University of 
Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada. zhang@bio.uminho.pt.

As severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) continues to 
spread globally, a series of vaccines, antibodies and drugs have been developed 
to combat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). High specific antibodies are 
powerful tool for the development of immunoassay and providing passive 
immunotherapy against SARS-CoV-2 and expected with large scale production. 
SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein was expressed in E. coli BL21 and purified by immobilized 
metal affinity chromatography, as antigen used to immunize hens, the specific 
IgY antibodies were extracted form egg yolk by PEG-6000 precipitation, and the 
titer of anti-S1 IgY antibody reached 1:10,000. IgY single chain variable 
fragment antibody (IgY-scFv) was generated by using phage display technology and 
the IgY-scFv showed high binding sensitivity and capacity to S1 protein of 
SARS-CoV-2, and the minimum detectable antigen S1 protein concentration was 
6 ng/µL. The docking study showed that the multiple epitopes on the IgY-scFv 
interacted with multiple residues on SARS-CoV-2 S1 RBD to form hydrogen bonds. 
This preliminary study suggests that IgY and IgY-scFv are suitable candidates 
for the development of immunoassay and passive immunotherapy for COVID-19 to 
humans and animals.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-022-01355-4
PMCID: PMC8840941
PMID: 35150368

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests for this article.


1663. J Virol Methods. 2012 Mar;180(1-2):32-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2011.12.006. 
Epub 2011 Dec 22.

Development of an immunochromatographic strip for rapid detection of antibodies 
against classical swine fever virus.

Li X(1), Wang L, Shi X, Zhao D, Yang J, Yang S, Zhang G.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Immunology of the Ministry of Agriculture, Henan 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Immunology, Henan Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Zhengzhou 450002, China. lixuewu2002@126.com

The genes encoding the Erns and E2 antigen epitopes of classical swine fever 
virus (CSFV) were expressed as a chimeric protein in Escherichia coli BL21 by 
pET expression system. The antigenicity of the expressed protein CnC2 was 
identified by indirect enzyme-linked immunoabsorbant assay (ELISA) and 
immunoblot with anti-CSFV antibodies. Based on the CnC2 protein, an 
immunochromatographic strip was developed to evaluate the antibody titer of 
serum samples from swine vaccinated with CSFV vaccine rapidly. The chimeric 
protein used as a detector was labeled with colloidal gold. Staphylococcal 
protein A (SPA) and anti-CnC2 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were blotted onto the 
nitrocellulose membrane as the test and control lines, respectively. The strip 
assay could be performed within 5min, which did not require any special 
equipment or skills. Through testing sera against various strains of CSFV, the 
sensitivity of the strip was determined to be 97.0% (65/67) and the specificity 
was 100% (98/98). The strip results were consistent with those of the existing 
commercial ELISA kit, and their correlation coefficient was 0.935. In 
conclusion, the immunochromatographic strip was an acceptable method for 
surveying CSFV-antibody titers in pigs.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2011.12.006
PMID: 22207080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1664. Microb Pathog. 2021 Jan;150:104727. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104727. Epub 
2021 Jan 9.

Recombinant outer membrane protein OmpC induces protective immunity against 
Aeromonashydrophila infection in Labeorohita.

Yadav SK(1), Dash P(2), Sahoo PK(2), Garg LC(3), Dixit A(4).

Author information:
(1)Gene Regulation Laboratory, School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi, 110067, India.
(2)Fish Health Management Division, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater 
Aquaculture, Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar, 751002, India.
(3)Gene Regulation Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, Aruna Asaf Ali 
Marg, New Delhi, 110067, India.
(4)Gene Regulation Laboratory, School of Biotechnology, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi, 110067, India. Electronic address: 
adix2100@mail.jnu.ac.in.

Aeromonashydrophila is an opportunistic pathogen that causes enormous loss to 
aquaculture industry. The outer membrane proteins of Aeromonas help in 
bacterium-host interaction, and are considered to be potential vaccine 
candidates. In the present study, we evaluated immunogenicity and protective 
efficacy of recombinant OmpC (rOmpC) of A. hydrophila in Indian major carp, 
Labeorohita. The rOmpC-vaccinated fish produced specific anti-rOmpC antibodies 
with a significant antibody titer, and the antisera could specifically detect 
the rOmpC in the cell lysates of Escherichia coli expressing rOmpC and 
cross-react with different Aeromonas lysates, indicating the suitability of the 
anti-rOmpC antisera to detect Aeromonas infection. A significant increase was 
noted in ceruloplasmin level, myeloperoxidase and anti-protease activities in 
transient and temporal manner the sera of the rOmpC-immunized fish as compared 
to PBS-control fish. Higher agglutination- and hemolytic activity titers in the 
anti-rOmpC antisera indicate stimulation of innate immunity. Expression of 
immune-related genes comprising various acute phase proteins, cytokines and 
inflammatory response molecules were modulated in the head kidney of 
rOmpC-immunized L. rohita. While IgM, IL1β, and TLR-22 were significantly 
up-regulated at early time points (3 h-72 h), the others showed a transient 
augmentation at both early and later time points (SOD, lysozymes C and G, 
NKEF-B, C3, CXCa and TNF-α) in the rOmpC-immunized L. rohita in comparison to 
PBS-injected controls. These data suggest that the rOmpC-induced immune response 
is temporally regulated to confer immunity. In vivo challenge of the 
rOmpC-immunized fish with A. hydrophila showed significantly greater survival 
when compared to PBS-injected control fish. Thus, our results highlight the 
immunomodulatory role of rOmpC and demonstrate its protective efficacy in L. 
rohita, along with the use of anti-rOmpC antisera in detecting Aeromonas 
infections.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104727
PMID: 33429054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1665. J Immunol. 2021 Apr 15;206(8):1817-1831. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.2000927. Epub 
2021 Mar 31.

Inclusion of an Optimized Plasmodium falciparum Merozoite Surface Protein 
2-Based Antigen in a Trivalent, Multistage Malaria Vaccine.

Eacret JS(1), Parzych EM(1), Gonzales DM(1), Burns JM Jr(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Molecular Parasitology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19129.
(2)Center for Molecular Parasitology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19129 jmb53@drexel.edu.

Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein (PfMSP)2 is a target of 
parasite-neutralizing Abs. Inclusion of recombinant PfMSP2 (rPfMSP2) as a 
component of a multivalent malaria vaccine is of interest, but presents 
challenges. Previously, we used the highly immunogenic PfMSP8 as a carrier to 
enhance production and/or immunogenicity of malaria vaccine targets. In this 
study, we exploited the benefits of rPfMSP8 as a carrier to optimize a 
rPfMSP2-based subunit vaccine. rPfMSP2 and chimeric rPfMSP2/8 vaccines produced 
in Escherichia coli were evaluated in comparative immunogenicity studies in 
inbred (CB6F1/J) and outbred (CD1) mice, varying the dose and adjuvant. 
Immunization of mice with both rPfMSP2-based vaccines elicited high-titer 
anti-PfMSP2 Abs that recognized the major allelic variants of PfMSP2. 
Vaccine-induced T cells recognized epitopes present in both PfMSP2 and the 
PfMSP8 carrier. Competition assays revealed differences in Ab specificities 
induced by the two rPfMSP2-based vaccines, with evidence of epitope masking by 
rPfMSP2-associated fibrils. In contrast to aluminum hydroxide (Alum) as 
adjuvant, formulation of rPfMSP2 vaccines with glucopyranosyl lipid 
adjuvant-stable emulsion, a synthetic TLR4 agonist, elicited Th1-associated 
cytokines, shifting production of Abs to cytophilic IgG subclasses. The 
rPfMSP2/8 + glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion formulation induced 
significantly higher Ab titers with superior durability and capacity to opsonize 
P. falciparum merozoites for phagocytosis. Immunization with a trivalent vaccine 
including PfMSP2/8, PfMSP1/8, and the P. falciparum 25 kDa sexual stage antigen 
fused to PfMSP8 (Pfs25/8) induced high levels of Abs specific for epitopes in 
each targeted domain, with no evidence of antigenic competition. These results 
are highly encouraging for the addition of rPfMSP2/8 as a component of an 
efficacious, multivalent, multistage malaria vaccine.

Copyright © 2021 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.2000927
PMCID: PMC8026686
PMID: 33789984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1666. Peptides. 2016 Nov;85:27-40. doi: 10.1016/j.peptides.2016.09.004. Epub 2016 Sep 
6.

Methodology for identification of pore forming antimicrobial peptides from soy 
protein subunits β-conglycinin and glycinin.

Xiang N(1), Lyu Y(1), Zhu X(2), Bhunia AK(3), Narsimhan G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States.
(2)Research Computing, Rosen Center for Advanced Computing, Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States.
(3)Department of Food Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, 
United States; Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN 47907, United States.
(4)Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States. Electronic address: 
narsimha@purdue.edu.

Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) inactivate microbial cells through pore formation 
in cell membrane. Because of their different mode of action compared to 
antibiotics, AMPs can be effectively used to combat drug resistant bacteria in 
human health. AMPs can also be used to replace antibiotics in animal feed and 
immobilized on food packaging films. In this research, we developed a 
methodology based on mechanistic evaluation of peptide-lipid bilayer interaction 
to identify AMPs from soy protein. Production of AMPs from soy protein is an 
attractive, cost-saving alternative for commercial consideration, because soy 
protein is an abundant and common protein resource. This methodology is also 
applicable for identification of AMPs from any protein. Initial screening of 
peptide segments from soy glycinin (11S) and soy β-conglycinin (7S) subunits was 
based on their hydrophobicity, hydrophobic moment and net charge. Delicate 
balance between hydrophilic and hydrophobic interactions is necessary for pore 
formation. High hydrophobicity decreases the peptide solubility in aqueous phase 
whereas high hydrophilicity limits binding of the peptide to the bilayer. Out of 
several candidates chosen from the initial screening, two peptides satisfied the 
criteria for antimicrobial activity, viz. (i) lipid-peptide binding in surface 
state and (ii) pore formation in transmembrane state of the aggregate. This 
method of identification of antimicrobial activity via molecular dynamics 
simulation was shown to be robust in that it is insensitive to the number of 
peptides employed in the simulation, initial peptide structure and force field. 
Their antimicrobial activity against Listeria monocytogenes and Escherichia coli 
was further confirmed by spot-on-lawn test.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.peptides.2016.09.004
PMID: 27612614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1667. Eng Life Sci. 2020 Jul 29;20(9-10):422-436. doi: 10.1002/elsc.202000020. 
eCollection 2020 Sep.

Large-scale production, purification, and function of a tumor multi-epitope 
vaccine: Peptibody with bFGF/VEGFA.

Zhang L(1), Jiang C(1), Chen X(1), Gu J(1), Song Q(1), Zhong H(2), Xiong S(3), 
Dong Q(4), Yu JC(4), Deng N(1).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Province Engineering Research Center for Antibody Drug and 
Immunoassay Department of Biology Jinan University Guangzhou P. R. China.
(2)The Biomedicine Translational Institute in Jinan University Guangzhou P. R. 
China.
(3)Guangdong Jida Genetic Medicine Engineering Research Center Co. Ltd Guangzhou 
P. R. China.
(4)Bio-Thera Solution Co. Ltd Guangzhou P. R. China.

In tumor tissue, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and vascular endothelial 
growth factor A (VEGFA) promote tumorigenesis by activating angiogenesis, but 
targeting single factor may produce drug resistance and compensatory 
angiogenesis. The Peptibody with bFGF/VEGFA was designed to simultaneously 
blockade these two factors. We were aiming to produce this Fc fusion protein in 
a large scale. The biological characterizations of Peptibody strains were 
identified as Escherichia coli and the fermentation mode was optimized in the 
shake flasks and 10-L bioreactor. The fermentation was scaled up to 100 L, with 
wet cell weight (WCW) 126 g/L, production 1.41 g/L, and productivity 
0.35 g/(L·h) of IPTG induction. The target protein was isolated by 
cation-exchange, hydrophobic and Protein A chromatography, with total recovery 
of 60.28% and HPLC purity of 86.71%. The host cells protein, DNA, and endotoxin 
residues were within the threshold. In mouse model, immunization of Peptibody 
vaccine could significantly suppressed the tumor growth and angiogenesis, with 
inhibition rate of 57.73 and 39.34%. The Peptibody vaccine could elicit 
high-titer anti-bFGF and anti-VEGFA antibodies, which inhibited the 
proliferation and migration of Lewis lung cancer cell cells by decreasing the 
Akt/MAPK signal pathways. Therefore, the Peptibody with bFGF/VEGFA might be used 
as a therapeutic tumor vaccine. The large-scale process we developed could 
support its industrial production and pre-clinical study in the future.

© 2020 The Authors. Engineering in Life Sciences published by WILEY‐VCH Verlag 
GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elsc.202000020
PMCID: PMC7481771
PMID: 32944017

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of 
interest.


1668. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2018 Dec;102(23):10005-10015. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-018-9365-y. Epub 2018 Sep 22.

CipA-mediating enzyme self-assembly to enhance the biosynthesis of pyrogallol in 
Escherichia coli.

Huo YX(1)(2), Ren H(1), Yu H(1), Zhao L(1), Yu S(1), Yan Y(3), Chen Z(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, 5 South 
Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing, 100081, China.
(2)UCLA Institute of Advancement (Suzhou), 10 Yueliangwan Road, Suzhou 
Industrial Park, Suzhou, 215123, China.
(3)College of Engineering, The University of Georgia, Athens, GA, 30602, USA.
(4)College of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, 5 South 
Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing, 100081, China. 
chenzhenya@bit.edu.cn.

Pyrogallol is a valuable phenolic compound and displays various physiological 
and pharmaceutical functions. Chemical synthesis of pyrogallol suffered from 
many issues, including environmental pollution, high cost, and low yield. Here, 
to address the above drawbacks, an artificial pathway for de novo pyrogallol 
production was established and this pathway only needed two exogenous enzymes 
(Y385F/T294A PobA and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase (PDC)). 
Y385F/T294A PobA is a mutant of PobA which is a hydroxylase from Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa, while PDC is a decarboxylase from Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. 
pneumoniae. First, the conversion efficiency of PDC was tested and 1800 ± 100 
mg/L pyrogallol was generated from 4 g/L gallic acid (GA). Subsequently, 
assembly of the whole pathway enabled 33 ± 6 mg/L pyrogallol production from 
simple carbon sources. After that, based on the assembling property of CipA (a 
hydrophobic protein) and to enhance the hydroxylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic 
acid, CipA was employed to organize its fusion (Y385F/T294A PobA) into protein 
crystalline inclusions (PCIs). Remarkably, the formation of CipA-Y385F/T294A 
PobA PCIs increased the pyrogallol production to 60 ± 6 mg/L, a 1.8 ± 0.4-fold 
higher value as compared to the strain without enzyme self-assembly. 
Additionally, the titer of pyrogallol was enhanced to 80 ± 1 mg/L through yeast 
extract concentration optimization. This work not only realizes the biosynthesis 
of pyrogallol from renewable carbon sources but also demonstrates that using 
CipA-mediating enzyme self-assembly could reinforce the hydroxylation efficiency 
of Y385F/T294A PobA, resulting in the enhancement of pyrogallol production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-018-9365-y
PMID: 30242435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1669. Biol Chem. 2009 Jan;390(1):81-90. doi: 10.1515/BC.2009.008.

Applicability of superfolder YFP bimolecular fluorescence complementation in 
vitro.

Ottmann C(1), Weyand M, Wolf A, Kuhlmann J, Ottmann C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Max Planck Institute of Molecular 
Physiology, Otto-Hahn-Str. 11, D-44227 Dortmund, Germany.

Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) using yellow fluorescent protein 
(YFP) is a widely employed method to study protein-protein interactions in 
cells. As yet, this technique has not been used in vitro. To evaluate a possible 
application of BiFC in vitro, we constructed a 'superfolder split YFP' system 
where 15 mutations enhance expression of the fusion proteins in Escherichia coli 
and enable a native purification due to improved solubility. Here, we present 
the crystal structure of 'superfolder YFP', providing the structural basis for 
the enhanced folding and stability characteristics. Complementation between the 
two non-fluorescent YFP fragments fused to HRas and Raf1RBD or to 14-3-3 and 
PMA2-CT52 resulted in the constitution of the functional fluorophore. The in 
vivo BiFC with these protein interaction pairs was demonstrated in eukaryotic 
cell lines as well. Here, we present for the first time BiFC in vitro studies 
with natively purified superfolder YFP fusion proteins and show the potential 
and drawbacks of this method for analyzing protein-protein interactions.

DOI: 10.1515/BC.2009.008
PMID: 19007309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1670. Planta. 2018 Jun;247(6):1363-1375. doi: 10.1007/s00425-018-2870-5. Epub 2018 Mar 
8.

Isolation, purification, and characterization of AgUCGalT1, a 
galactosyltransferase involved in anthocyanin galactosylation in purple celery 
(Apium graveolens L.).

Feng K(1), Xu ZS(1), Liu JX(1), Li JW(1), Wang F(1), Xiong AS(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, College of 
Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, College of 
Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, China. 
xiongaisheng@njau.edu.cn.

This study showed that a galactosyltransferase, AgUCGalT1, is involved in 
anthocyanin galactosylation in purple celery. Celery is a well-known vegetable 
because of its rich nutrients, low calories, and medicinal values. Its petioles 
and leaf blades are the main organs acting as nutrient sources. UDP-galactose: 
cyanidin 3-O-galactosyltransferase can transfer the galactosyl moiety from 
UDP-galactose to the 3-O-position of cyanidin through glycosylation. This 
process enhances the stability and water solubility of anthocyanins. In the 
present study, LC-MS data indicated that abundant cyanidin-based anthocyanins 
accumulated in the petioles of purple celery ('Nanxuan liuhe purple celery'). A 
gene encoding UDP-galactose: cyanidin 3-O-galactosyltransferase, namely 
AgUCGalT1, was isolated from purple celery and expressed in Escherichia coli 
BL21 (DE3). Sequence alignments revealed that the AgUCGalT1 protein contained a 
highly conserved putative secondary plant glycosyltransferase (PSPG) motif. The 
glycosylation product catalyzed by AgUCGalT1 was detected using UPLC equipment. 
The recombinant AgUCGalT1 had an optimal enzyme activity at 35 °C and pH 8.0, 
and showed highest enzyme activity toward cyanidin among the enzyme activities 
involving other substances, namely, peonidin, quercetin, and kaempferol. The 
expression levels of AgUCGalT1 were positively correlated with the total 
anthocyanin contents in purple and non-purple celery varieties. Crude enzymes 
extracted from purple celery exhibited glycosylation ability, whereas crude 
enzymes obtained from non-purple celery did not have this ability. This work 
provided evidence as a basis for investigations on the function of AgUCGalT1 in 
anthocyanin glycosylation in purple celery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-018-2870-5
PMID: 29520459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1671. Eur J Pharmacol. 2014 Oct 5;740:722-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.06.002. Epub 
2014 Jun 11.

GMP production and characterization of leucine zipper-tagged tumor necrosis 
factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (LZ-TRAIL) for phase I clinical trial.

Jiang J(1), Liu X(2), Deng L(2), Zhang P(2), Wang G(2), Wang S(2), Liu H(2), Su 
Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Binzhou Medical University, Shandong Province, 
Yantai 256603, China. Electronic address: jing_jiang1974@sina.com.
(2)Shandong Simcere-Medgenn Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shandong Province, 
Yantai 264006, China.
(3)Simcere Pharmaceutical R&D Department; Jiangsu Simcere-Medgenn 
Biopharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Jiangsu Province, Nanjing 210000, China. Electronic 
address: suyunpeng@simcere.com.

Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) exhibits potent 
antitumor activity in a wide range of cancers without deleterious side effects 
on normal tissues. Several TRAIL derivatives have been developed to improve its 
pharmacokinetics and therapeutic effects through strategies such as adding a 
leucine zipper to increase the circulation half-life. To obtain clinical grade 
LZ-TRAIL for phase I clinical trial, a single batch of 30 L bioreactor culture 
was performed using the Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) strain expressing the 
recombinant LZ-TRAIL. A robust LZ-TRAIL production fermentation process was 
developed, which could be scaled up from 5L to 50 L, and had a titer of 
approximately 1.4 g/l. A four-step purification strategy was carried out to 
obtain a final product with over 95% purity and 45% yield. The final material 
was filter sterilized, aseptically vialed, and stored at 4°C, and 
comprehensively characterized using multiple assays (vialed product was sterile, 
purity was 95%, aggregates were <5%, potency revealed IC50 of 9 nM on MDA-MB-231 
cells, and the endotoxin level was <0.25 U/mg). The purity, composition, and 
functional activities of the molecule were confirmed. in vivo investigations 
indicated that LZ-TRAIL has better antitumor potency in three Xenograft tumor 
models compared to TRAIL (95-281). LZ-TRAIL also showed improved pharmacokinetic 
and safety profiles in cynomolgus monkeys without abnormalities associated with 
drug exposure. In conclusion, the scalable synthesis of LZ-TRAIL is useful for 
production of phase I clinical trial material. These preclinical investigations 
warrant further clinical development of this product for cancer therapy.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.06.002
PMID: 24929054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1672. Microb Pathog. 2018 Dec;125:514-520. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.10.016. Epub 
2018 Oct 12.

Evaluation of DNA vaccine encoding BCSP(31) surface protein of Brucella abortus 
for protective immunity.

Imtiaz W(1), Khan A(2), Gul ST(1), Saqib M(1), Saleemi MK(1), Shahzad A(1), Dong 
J(3), Hussain R(4), Shen M(3), Du X(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, 38040, 
Pakistan.
(2)Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, 38040, 
Pakistan; Shandong Vocational Animal Science and Veterinary College, 88 Eastern 
Shengli Street, Weifang, 261061, China. Electronic address: ahrar1122@yahoo.com.
(3)Shandong Vocational Animal Science and Veterinary College, 88 Eastern Shengli 
Street, Weifang, 261061, China.
(4)University College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, The Islamia University 
of Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur, 63100, Pakistan.

Brucellosis is a highly contagious and zoonotic disease and has a considerable 
impact on animal health and economy of a country, principally in Pakistan, where 
rural income largely depends upon livestock farming and dairy products. The 
disease burden is more in underdeveloped/developing countries due to the low 
economy and limited access to the diagnostic facilities. In Pakistan, the 
prevalence of Brucella abortus is very high, so it is the need of the hour to 
control this disease through more advanced methods. This study was designed with 
the aim to construct the DNA based vaccine of gene encoding antigenic surface 
protein (BCSP31). For this purpose, the BCSP31 gene was amplified, purified and 
ligated in pTZ57 R/T (cloning vector). Dubbed BCSP31-pTZ57 R/T vector was 
transformed into competent cells (DH5α). After plasmid extraction, the plasmid 
and pET-28a vector was restricted with EcoRI and BamHI. Again, ligation was done 
and dubbed pET-28a-BCSP31 transformed into E. coli (BL21). After expression, the 
protein was purified and used for evaluation of immunogenic response. The 
protective and immunogenic efficacy of the vaccine was evaluated in rabbits 
(n = 20). The rabbits were divided into four equal groups. Groups A-C were given 
purified protein diluted in normal saline @ 750, 1500 and 3000 μg/0.2 mL, 
respectively through intraconjunctival route. Group D was given 0.2 mL normal 
saline through intraconjunctival route. Specific immunoglobulin G (IgG) 
responses were measured through indirect ELISA on a weekly basis. The titer of 
IgG against the antigen was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in vaccinated groups 
A-C as compared to group D (control group) in a dose dependent manner. Moreover, 
log units of protection produced by DNA based vaccine in the rabbits (3.02) also 
indicated the protective efficacy of the DNA vaccine against B. abortus 
challenge. The response of this vaccine in rabbit suggested its potential 
effectiveness against Brucella abortus in large animals.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.10.016
PMID: 30321591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1673. Bioconjug Chem. 2020 Oct 21;31(10):2413-2420. doi: 
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.0c00476. Epub 2020 Oct 1.

Synthetic Multienzyme Complexes Assembled on Virus-like Particles for Cascade 
Biosynthesis In Cellulo.

Wei Q(1), He S(2), Qu J(2), Xia J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong 
Kong SAR, China.
(2)Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering, Center of Systems Biology 
and Human Health, School of Science and Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong SAR, 
China.

Multienzyme complexes, or metabolons, are natural assemblies or clusters of 
sequential enzymes in biosynthesis. Spatial proximity of the enzyme active sites 
results in a substrate channeling effect, streamlines the cascade reaction, and 
increases the overall efficiency of the metabolic pathway. Engineers have 
constructed synthetic multienzyme complexes to acquire better control of the 
metabolic flux and a higher titer of the target product. As most of these 
complexes are assembled through orthogonal interactions or bioconjugation 
reactions, the number of enzymes to be assembled is limited by the number of 
orthogonal interaction or reaction pairs. Here, we utilized the Tobacco mosaic 
virus (TMV) virus-like particle (VLP) as protein scaffold and orthogonal 
reactive protein pairs (SpyCatcher/SpyTag and SnoopCatcher/SnoopTag) as linker 
modules to assemble three terpene biosynthetic enzymes in Escherichia coli. The 
enzyme assembly switched on the production of amorpha-4,11-diene, whereas the 
product was undetectable in all the controls without assembly. This work 
demonstrates a facile strategy for constructing scaffolded catalytic 
nanomachineries to biosynthesize valuable metabolites in bacterial cells, and a 
unique assembly induced the switch-on mechanism in biosynthesis for the first 
time.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.0c00476
PMID: 33001630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1674. J Neurochem. 2005 Jan;92(2):311-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2004.02850.x.

Different properties of the central and peripheral forms of human tryptophan 
hydroxylase.

McKinney J(1), Knappskog PM, Haavik J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Section of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.

Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) catalyses the rate-limiting reaction in the 
biosynthesis of serotonin. In humans, two different TPH genes exist, located on 
chromosomes 11 and 12, respectively, and encoding two enzymes (TPH1 and TPH2) 
with an overall sequence identity of 71%. We have expressed both enzymes as 
various fusion proteins in Escherichia coli and using an in vitro 
transcription/translation system, and compared their solubility and kinetic 
properties. TPH2 is more soluble than TPH1, has a higher molecular weight and 
different kinetic properties, including a lower catalytic efficiency towards 
phenylalanine than TPH1. Both enzymes are phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent 
protein kinase A. TPH2 was phosphorylated at Ser19, a phosphorylation site not 
present in TPH1. The differences between TPH1 and TPH2 have important 
implications for the regulation of serotonin production in the brain and the 
periphery and may provide an explanation for some of the diverging results 
reported for TPH from different sources in the past.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2004.02850.x
PMID: 15663479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1675. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Oct 6;112(40):12360-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1510533112. Epub 2015 Sep 21.

Assessing sequence plasticity of a virus-like nanoparticle by evolution toward a 
versatile scaffold for vaccines and drug delivery.

Lu Y(1), Chan W(1), Ko BY(1), VanLang CC(1), Swartz JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305;
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; 
Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305 
jswartz@stanford.edu.

Virus-like particles (VLPs) have been extensively explored as nanoparticle 
vehicles for many applications in biotechnology (e.g., vaccines, drug delivery, 
imaging agents, biocatalysts). However, amino acid sequence plasticity relative 
to subunit expression and nanoparticle assembly has not been explored. Whereas 
the hepatitis B core protein (HBc) VLP appears to be the most promising model 
for fundamental and applied studies; particle instability, antigen fusion 
limitations, and intrinsic immunogenicity have limited its development. Here, we 
apply Escherichia coli-based cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) to rapidly 
produce and screen HBc protein variants that still self-assemble into VLPs. To 
improve nanoparticle stability, artificial covalent disulfide bridges were 
introduced throughout the VLP. Negative charges on the HBc VLP surface were then 
reduced to improve surface conjugation. However, removal of surface negative 
charges caused low subunit solubility and poor VLP assembly. Solubility and 
assembly as well as surface conjugation were greatly improved by transplanting a 
rare spike region onto the common shell structure. The newly stabilized and 
extensively modified HBc VLP had almost no immunogenicity in mice, demonstrating 
great promise for medical applications. This study introduces a general paradigm 
for functional improvement of complex protein assemblies such as VLPs. This is 
the first study, to our knowledge, to systematically explore the sequence 
plasticity of viral capsids as an approach to defining structure function 
relationships for viral capsid proteins. Our observations on the unexpected 
importance of the HBc spike tip charged state may also suggest new mechanistic 
routes toward viral therapeutics that block capsid assembly.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1510533112
PMCID: PMC4603490
PMID: 26392546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1676. BMC Gastroenterol. 2013 Jul 17;13:117. doi: 10.1186/1471-230X-13-117.

The protective effect of recombinant Lactococcus lactis oral vaccine on a 
Clostridium difficile-infected animal model.

Yang XQ(1), Zhao YG, Chen XQ, Jiang B, Sun DY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, General Hospital of Guangzhou Military 
Command of People’s Liberation Army, Guangzhou 510010, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: Oral immunization with vaccines may be an effective strategy for 
prevention of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). However, application of 
previously developed vaccines for preventing CDI has been limited due to various 
reasons. Here, we developed a recombinant Lactococcus lactis oral vaccine and 
evaluated its effect on a C. difficile-infected animal model established in 
golden hamsters in attempt to provide an alternative strategy for CDI 
prevention.
METHODS: Recombinant L. lactis vaccine was developed using the pTRKH2 plasmid, a 
high-copy-number Escherichia coli-L. shuttle vector: 1) L. lactis expressing 
secreted proteins was constructed with recombinant pTRKH2 (secreted-protein 
plasmid) carrying the Usp45 signal peptide (SPUsp45), nontoxic adjuvanted 
tetanus toxin fragment C (TETC), and 14 of the 38 C-terminal repeats (14CDTA) of 
nontoxic C. difficile toxin A (TcdA); and 2) L. lactis expressing secreted and 
membrane proteins was constructed with recombinant pTRKH2 (membrane-anchored 
plasmid) carrying SPUsp45, TETC, 14CDTA, and the cell wall-anchored sequence of 
protein M6 (cwaM6). Then, 32 male Syrian golden hamsters were randomly divided 
into 4 groups (n = 8 each) for gavage of normal saline (blank control) and L. 
lactis carrying the empty shuttle vector, secreted-protein plasmid, and 
membrane-anchored plasmid, respectively. After 1-week gavage of clindamycin, the 
animals were administered with C. difficile spore suspension. General symptoms 
and intestinal pathological changes of the animals were examined by naked eye 
and microscopy, respectively. Protein levels of anti-TcdA IgG/IgA antibodies in 
intestinal tissue and fluid were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA). A cell culture cytotoxicity neutralization assay was done by TcdA 
treatment with or without anti-TcdA serum pre-incubation or treatment. Apoptosis 
of intestinal epithelial cells was examined by flow cytometry (FL) assay. 
Expression of mucosal inflammatory cytokines in the animals was detected by 
polymer chain reaction (PCR) assay.
RESULTS: After the C. difficile challenge, the animals of control group had 
severe diarrhea symptoms on day 1 and all died on day 4, indicating that the CDI 
animal model was established in hamster. Of the 3 immunization groups, 
secreted-protein and membrane-anchored plasmid groups had significantly lower 
mortalities, body weight decreases, and pathological scores, with higher 
survival rate/time than the empty plasmid group (P < 0.05). The tilter of IgG 
antibody directed against TcdA was significantly higher in serum and intestinal 
fluid of secreted-protein and membrane-anchored plasmid groups than in the empty 
plasmid group (P < 0.05) while the corresponding titer of IgA antibody directed 
against TcdA had no substantial differences (P > 0.05). The anti-TcdA serum of 
membrane-anchored plasmid group neutralized the cytotoxicity of 200 ng/ml TcdA 
with the best protective effect achieved by anti-TcdA serum pre-incubation. The 
incidences of TcdA-induced death and apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells 
were significantly reduced by cell pre-incubation or treatment with anti-TcdA 
serum of membrane-anchored plasmid group (P < 0.05). MCP-1, ICAM-1, IL-6, and 
Gro-1 mRNA expression levels were the lowest in cecum tissue of the 
membrane-anchored groups compared to the other groups.
CONCLUSION: Recombinant L. lactis live vaccine is effective for preventing CDI 
in the hamster model, thus providing an alternative for immunization of C. 
difficile-associated diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-13-117
PMCID: PMC3750240
PMID: 23865596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1677. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2016 Dec;180(7):1446-1455. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-016-2178-5. Epub 2016 Jul 5.

Enzymatic Production of Glutathione by Bifunctional γ-Glutamylcysteine 
Synthetase/Glutathione Synthetase Coupled with In Vitro Acetate Kinase-Based ATP 
Generation.

Jiang Y(1)(2), Tao R(3), Shen Z(3), Sun L(3), Zhu F(3), Yang S(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, Institute of Plant Physiology and 
Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(2)Shanghai Research and Development Center of Industrial Biotechnology, 
Shanghai, 201201, China.
(3)Huzhou Research Center of Industrial Biotechnology, Shanghai Institutes for 
Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Huzhou, 313000, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, Institute of Plant Physiology and 
Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shanghai, 200032, China. syang@sibs.ac.cn.
(5)Shanghai Research and Development Center of Industrial Biotechnology, 
Shanghai, 201201, China. syang@sibs.ac.cn.
(6)Huzhou Research Center of Industrial Biotechnology, Shanghai Institutes for 
Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Huzhou, 313000, China. 
syang@sibs.ac.cn.
(7)Jiangsu National Synergetic Innovation Center for Advanced Materials (SICAM), 
Nanjing, 200237, China. syang@sibs.ac.cn.

Glutathione (γ-glutamyl-L-cysteinylglycine, GSH) is a pharmaceutical compound 
often used in food additives and the cosmetics industry. GSH can be produced 
biologically from L-glutamic acid, L-cysteine, and glycine through an enzymatic 
process traditionally involving two sequential adenosine triphosphate 
(ATP)-dependent reactions catalyzed by γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase (γ-GCS or 
GSHI, EC 6.3.2.2) and GSH synthetase (GS or GSHII, EC 6.3.2.3). Here, we report 
the enzymatic production of GSH by recombinant cell-free bifunctional 
γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase/glutathione synthetase (γ-GCS-GS or GshF) coupled 
with in vitro acetate kinase-based ATP generation. GSH production by an acetate 
kinase-integrated Escherichia coli Rosetta(DE3) mutant expressing Streptococcus 
thermophilus GshF reached 18.3 ± 0.1 g l-1 (59.5 ± 0.3 mM) within 3 h, with a 
molar yield of 0.75 ± 0.00 mol mol-1 added cysteine and a productivity of 
6.1 ± 0.0 g l-1 h-1. This is the highest GSH titer reported to date. This newly 
developed biocatalytic process offers a promising approach for meeting the 
industrial requirements for GSH production.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-016-2178-5
PMID: 27380420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Virol J. 2014 May 20;11:96. doi: 10.1186/1743-422X-11-96.

Cloning and expression of N22 region of Torque Teno virus (TTV) genome and use 
of peptide in developing immunoassay for TTV antibodies.

Mankotia DS, Irshad M(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Biochemistry Division, Department of Laboratory Medicine, All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi 110029, India. drirshad54@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Torque Teno Virus (TTV) is a DNA virus with high rate of prevalence 
globally. Since its discovery in 1997, several studies have questioned the role 
of this virus in causing disease. However, it still remains an enigma. Although 
methods are available for detection of TTV infection, there is still a need for 
simple, rapid and reliable method for screening of this virus in human 
population. Present investigation describes the cloning and expression of N22 
region of TTV-genome and the use of expressed peptide in development of 
immunoassay to detect anti-TTV antibodies in serum. Since TTV genotype-1 is more 
common in India, the serum positive for genotype-1 was used as source of N22 for 
expression purpose.
METHODS: Full length N22 region of ORF1 from TTV genotype-1 was amplified and 
cloned in pGEM®-T Easy vector. After cloning, the amplicon was transformed and 
expressed as a fusion protein containing hexa-histidine tag in pET-28a(+) vector 
using BL21 E. coli cells as host. Expression was conducted both in LB medium as 
well as ZYP-5052 auto-induction medium. The expressed peptide was purified using 
metal-chelate affinity chromatography and used as antigen in developing a blot 
immunoassay.
RESULTS: Analysis of translated product by SDS-PAGE and western blotting 
demonstrated the presence of 25 kDa polypeptide produced after expression. 
Solubility studies showed the polypeptide to be associated with insoluble 
fraction. The use of this peptide as antigen in blot assay produced prominent 
spot on membrane treated with sera from TTV-infected patients. Analysis of sera 
from 75 patients with liver and renal diseases demonstrated a successful 
implication of N22 polypeptide based immunoassay in screening sera for anti-TTV 
antibodies. Comparison of the immunoassay developed using expressed N22 peptide 
with established PCR method for TTV-DNA detection showed good coherence between 
TTV-DNA and presence of anti-TTV antibodies in the sera analysed.
CONCLUSIONS: This concludes that TTV N22 region may be expressed and safely used 
as antigen for blot assay to detect anti-TTV antibodies in sera.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-422X-11-96
PMCID: PMC4032458
PMID: 24884576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2019 Jul;66(4):626-633. doi: 10.1002/bab.1763. Epub 
2019 Jul 10.

Functional characterization of host toxic EcdB transcription factor protein of 
echinocandin B biosynthetic gene cluster.

Kumar A(1), Kumar V(2), Kumar A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Central University of South Bihar, Panchanpur, 
Gaya, India.
(2)National Institute of Plant Genome Research, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, New Delhi, 
India.

The ecdB is a transcription factor, located in the echinocandin B biosynthetic 
gene cluster of Emericella rugulosa NRRL11440. Here, we validated the ecdB mRNA 
sequence for functional expression and to explore the role of EcdB protein in 
the echinocandin B regulation. The sequence alignment study revealed that the 
ecdB coding sequence was found 75 bp shorter than the reference mRNA sequence. 
This coding sequence encodes for EcdB protein and comprises three conserved 
domains; DNA binding domain (DBD), coiled-coil domain, and signature middle 
homology region. The full-length and DBD (truncated) DNA sequences were 
expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) under different tested conditions. The 
expression of EcdB protein was found to be toxic, which curbs the cell growth. 
In contrast to truncated protein (GST:EcdB1-54), the full-length (GST:EcdB) 
protein was expressed at very low titer and not detectable in SDS-PAGE under the 
varying isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), temperature, and media 
conditions. However, GST:EcdB1-54 was successfully purified under standard 
conditions (0.5 mM IPTG at 0.5OD) with 33 kDa expected size. The functionality 
of GST:EcdB1-54 was attained by electrophoretic mobility shift assay study as a 
clear band shifting showed with ecdA promoter. Taken together, we conclude that 
EcdB interacts with the ecdA promoter that reflected to require for echinocandin 
B regulation.

© 2019 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.1763
PMID: 31069846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1680. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2011 Feb;30(1):87-93. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0076.

Preparation and preliminary characterization of rabbit monoclonal antibodies 
against human midkine.

Yao X(1), Qian FC, Dai LC, Min LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Huzhou Central Hospital, Hongqi, Huzhou, Zhejiang 
Province, China.

We prepared rabbit monoclonal antibodies that target human midkine (MK). The MK 
gene was amplified by PCR from the plasmid pEGFP-MK and subcloned into the 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-1λT to generate an N-terminally glutathione 
S-transferase (GST)-tagged fusion protein construct. Expression of the GST-MK 
fusion protein was achieved by IPTG induction in Escherichia coli cells. The 
expressed protein was purified using the GST system. After verifying 
purification, the fusion protein was used to immunize rabbits to prepare 
monoclonal antibodies against human MK by the rabbit hybridoma technique. The 
hybridomas generated were screened by an enzyme-link immunoassay (ELISA) for 
specificity, which was further characterized by Western blotting and ELISA. 
SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the purified protein corresponds to the calculated 
molecular weight. The GST-MK fusion protein was prepared. At least one hybridoma 
cell line secreting anti-MK MAb was obtained. Western blotting analysis 
confirmed the identity of the MAb. The titer of the MAbs measured by an indirect 
ELISA was 1:64,000. The affinity constant, which was measured by a 
non-competitive ELISA, was found to be 3.0 × 10(9) M(-1). Western blotting and 
immunohistochemistry analysis showed that the produced MAbs bind to the MK 
protein in cancerous tissues. The GST-MK fusion protein was successfully 
expressed and purified. The MAbs against MK were subsequently prepared, which 
should further aid research and the application of MK MAbs in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0076
PMID: 21466290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2011 Dec;236(12):1468-76. doi: 10.1258/ebm.2011.011169. 
Epub 2011 Nov 15.

A new recombinant human apolipoprotein E mimetic peptide with high-density 
lipoprotein binding and function enhancing activity.

Zhao W(1), Du F, Zhang M, Sun S, Yu H, Fan D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, School of Medicine, University of 
South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29209, USA.

We generated a novel human apolipoprotein E (apoE)-mimetic peptide, designated 
EpK. EpK contains an N-terminal cysteine residue, a low-density lipoprotein 
receptor-binding fragment, a 6 × lysine linker and a lipid-binding fragment. The 
recombinant peptide was expressed in Escherichia coli, and purified with a 
chitin bead column followed by a Heparin Sepharose CL-6B column to yield pure 
peptide. EpK displayed high solubility in aqueous solution at neutral pH and 
adopted a low content of α-helical structure which was significantly increased 
in 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol or upon lipid binding. EpK retained similar 
1,2-dimyristoyl(d54)-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine binding activity as human apoE3 
albeit with slower kinetics. Cell culture studies showed that EpK mediated 
cholesterol efflux from cholesterol-loaded primary murine macrophages with 
higher mass-based efficiency than human apoAI and human apoE3, and that EpK 
inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced proinflammatory cytokine expression 
in murine macrophages. When injected into apoE(-/-)mice, EpK predominantly 
associated with high-density lipoprotein (HDL), which was also shown in in vitro 
incubation experiments. Moreover, association of EpK with HDL enhanced the 
ability of HDL in mediating cholesterol efflux and suppressing LPS-induced 
proinflammatory cytokine expression in cholesterol-loaded human acute monocytic 
leukemia cell line (THP-1) macrophages. These data suggest that this novel 
recombinant apoE mimetic peptide enhances HDL function and harbors 
antiatherogenic potential.

DOI: 10.1258/ebm.2011.011169
PMID: 22087021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. Indian J Hum Genet. 2013 Jan;19(1):43-53. doi: 10.4103/0971-6866.112885.

In silico experiment with an-antigen-toll like receptor-5 agonist fusion 
construct for immunogenic application to Helicobacter pylori.

Haghighi MA(1), Mobarez AM, Salmanian AH, Moazeni M, Zali MR, Sadeghi M, Amani 
J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUNDS: Helicobacter pylori colonize the gastric mucosa of half of the 
world's population. Although it is classified as a definitive type I carcinogen 
by World Health Organization, there is no effective vaccine against this 
bacterium. H. pylori evade the host immune response by avoiding toll-like 
detection, such as detection via toll-like receptor-5 (TLR-5). Thus, a chimeric 
construct consisting of selected epitopes from virulence factors that is 
incorporated into a TLR-5 ligand (Pseudomonas flagellin) could result in more 
potent innate and adaptive immune responses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Based on the histocompatibility antigens of BALB/c mice, 
in silico techniques were used to select several fragments from H. pylori 
virulence factors with a high density of B- and T-cell epitopes.
RESULTS: These segments consist of cytotoxin-associated geneA (residue 162-283), 
neutrophil activating protein (residue 30-135) and outer inflammatory protein A 
(residue 155-268). The secondary and tertiary structure of the chimeric 
constructs and other bioinformatics analyses such as stability, solubility, and 
antigenicity were performed. The chimeric construct containing antigenic 
segments of H. pylori proteins was fused with the D3 domain of Pseudomonas 
flagellin. This recombinant chimeric gene was optimized for expression in 
Escherichia coli. The in silico results showed that the conserved C- and 
N-terminal domains of flagellin and the antigenicity of selected fragments were 
retained.
DISCUSSION: In silico analysis showed that Pseudomonas flagellin is a suitable 
platform for incorporation of an antigenic construct from H. pylori. This 
strategy may be an effective tool for the control of H. pylori and other 
persistent infections.

DOI: 10.4103/0971-6866.112885
PMCID: PMC3722629
PMID: 23901192

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1683. J Struct Biol. 2013 Sep;183(3):320-328. doi: 10.1016/j.jsb.2013.07.010. Epub 
2013 Jul 31.

Detection of soluble co-factor dependent protein expression in vivo: application 
to the 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase PptT from Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Rottier K(1), Faille A(1), Prudhomme T(1), Leblanc C(1), Chalut C(1), Cabantous 
S(2), Guilhot C(1), Mourey L(1), Pedelacq JD(3).

Author information:
(1)CNRS, IPBS (Institut de Pharmacologie et de Biologie Structurale), 205 Route 
de Narbonne, BP 64182, F-31077 Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, 
IPBS, F-31077 Toulouse, France.
(2)INSERM UMR 1037, Cancer Research Center of Toulouse, 20-24 Rue du Pont St. 
Pierre, 31052 Toulouse Cedex, France; Université de Toulouse, 31052 Toulouse 
Cedex, France; Institut Claudius Regaud, 31052 Toulouse Cedex, France.
(3)CNRS, IPBS (Institut de Pharmacologie et de Biologie Structurale), 205 Route 
de Narbonne, BP 64182, F-31077 Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, 
IPBS, F-31077 Toulouse, France. Electronic address: Jean-Denis.Pedelacq@ipbs.fr.

The need for early-on diagnostic tools to assess the folding and solubility of 
expressed protein constructs in vivo is of great interest when dealing with 
recalcitrant proteins. In this paper, we took advantage of the picomolar 
sensitivity of the bipartite GFP1-10/GFP11 system to investigate the solubility 
of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase PptT, an 
enzyme essential for the viability of the tubercle bacillus. In vivo and in 
vitro complementation assays clearly showed the improved solubility of the 
full-length PptT compared to its N- and C-terminally truncated counterparts. 
However, initial attempts to purify the full-length enzyme overexpressed in 
Escherichia coli cells were hampered by aggregation issues overtime that caused 
the protein to precipitate within hours. The fact that the naturally occurring 
Coenzyme A and Mg(2+), essentials for PptT to carry out its function, could play 
a role in stabilizing the enzyme was confirmed using DSF experiments. In vitro 
activity assays were performed using the ACP substrate from the type I 
polyketide synthase PpsC from M. tuberculosis, a 2188 amino-acid enzyme that 
plays a major role in the virulence and pathogenicity of this microbial 
pathogen. We selected the most soluble and compact ACP fragment (2042-2188), 
identified by genetic selection of in-frame fragments from random library 
experiments, to monitor the transfer of the P-pant moiety from Coenzyme A onto a 
conserved serine residue of this ACP domain.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2013.07.010
PMID: 23916562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. J Vet Med Sci. 2017 May 18;79(5):855-863. doi: 10.1292/jvms.16-0528. Epub 2017 
Mar 20.

A study on the efficacy of the recombinant Yersinia adhesin A vaccine against 
yersiniosis in the early phase.

Tsugo K(1), Nakamura SI(1), Yamanaka H(1), Une Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, School of Veterinary Medicine, Azabu 
University, 1-17-71 Fuchinobe, Chuo-ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 252-5201, Japan.

Yersinia pseudotuberculosis (Y. ptb) is a zoonotic pathogenic bacterial species 
of the family Enterobacteriaceae and causes yersiniosis, an acute intestinal 
infection in humans and animals. Y. ptb is often implicated in lethal epidemics 
in zoo animals and reductions in the breeding population, but a valid prevention 
method has not been established. Therefore, this study aimed to develop a 
vaccine for yersiniosis control. The immunogenicity of one of the adhesion 
factors involved in pathogenic mechanisms of Y. ptb, Yersinia adhesin A (YadA), 
was investigated. BALB/c mice were divided into 3 groups: in group 1, mice 
received insoluble recombinant YadA (rYadA) produced in genetically engineered 
Escherichia coli (100 µg/dose); in group 2, mice received inactivated Y. ptb 
with strong expression of YadA (20 mg/dose);and in group 3, mice received 
phosphate-buffered saline (0.2 ml/dose). All interventions were administered 
subcutaneously twice at an interval of 1 week. One week after the second 
administration, Y. ptb (107 cells/mouse) was inoculated orally. As a result, the 
survival rate was 100% in group 1, 60% in group 2, and 0% in group 3. The 
anti-YadA antibody titer increased in a stepwise fashion in groups 1 and 2. The 
present study results suggest that rYadA shows promise as a protective antigen 
against yersiniosis. This study concluded that vaccination against Y. ptb may 
become available as a new method to prevent lethal epidemics in animals.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.16-0528
PMCID: PMC5447973
PMID: 28320976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1685. Heliyon. 2017 Apr 11;3(4):e00291. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2017.e00291. 
eCollection 2017 Apr.

Self-assembled particulate PsaA as vaccine against Streptococcus pneumoniae 
infection.

González-Miro M(1)(2), Rodríguez-Noda L(1), Fariñas-Medina M(1), García-Rivera 
D(1), Vérez-Bencomo V(1), Rehm BHA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Finlay Institute, La Havana, Cuba.
(2)Institute of Fundamental Sciences and MacDiarmid Institute of Advanced 
Materials and Nanotechnology, Massey University, Palmerston North, New Zealand.
(3)Australian Institute of Innovative Materials, University of Wollongong, 
Australia.

Streptococcus pneumoniae is a human pathogen responsible for the majority of 
childhood pneumonia and media otitis cases worldwide. The diversity of its 
capsular polysaccharides (CPS) results in more than 91 serotypes of which at 
least 23 are virulent. Various CPS conjugated to immunogenic carrier proteins 
are currently licensed and provide protection against the infection caused by 
the respective serotypes but not against new and emerging virulent serotypes. In 
this study, we considered the conserved protein antigen PsaA, the pneumococcal 
surface adhesin A, in order to overcome the limitations of CPS antigens. The 
PsaA was translationally fused to a polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) synthase which 
mediated production of PsaA displayed on PHB inclusions in recombinant 
Escherichia coli. This suggested that the PsaA fusion to the PHB synthase did 
not interfere with PHB synthase activity and its ability to mediate formation of 
nano-sized inclusions composed of a PHB core surrounded by the PHB synthase 
fused to PsaA. Isolated PHB beads showed a negative surface charge. Transmission 
electron microscopy analysis suggested that the PsaA fusion to the PHB synthase 
reduced the size of PHB beads from about 500 nm to 100 nm. The integrity and 
antigenicity of the fusion protein attached to isolated PHB beads was confirmed 
by SDS-PAGE, tryptic peptide fingerprinting analysis using MALDI-TOF-MS/MS and 
immunoblotting using a monoclonal anti-PsaA antibody. Mice immunized with PsaA 
displaying PHB beads produced high and specific IgG levels dominated by IgG1 
isotype. While IgG1 titer were similar between soluble and insoluble PsaA, the 
IgG2 titers were strongly increased upon vaccination with insoluble PsaA i.e. 
PsaA displayed on PHB beads. Particulate PsaA-PHB beads elicited IgG antibodies 
recognizing PsaA in whole cell lysates of seven different serotypes of S. 
pneumoniae. This study suggested that PHB beads are suitable carriers for PsaA 
in order to induce a significant and specific Th-2-type immune response.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2017.e00291
PMCID: PMC5390691
PMID: 28435909


1686. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2013 Oct;84(2):78-89. doi: 10.1002/arch.21115. Epub 
2013 Aug 26.

Molecular cloning and transcription expression of 3-dehydroecdysone 3α-reductase 
(3de 3α-reductase) in the different tissues and the developing stage from the 
silkworm, Bombyx mori L.

Yang HJ(1), Xin HH, Lu Y, Cai ZZ, Wang MX, Chen RT, Liang S, Singh CO, Kim JN, 
Miao YG.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Epidemic Etiology and Immunological Prevention of 
Ministry of Agriculture, College of Animal Sciences, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, P. R. China.

Molting in insects is regulated by molting hormones (ecdysteroids), which are 
also crucial to insect growth, development, and reproduction etc. The decreased 
ecdysteroid in titre results from enhanced ecdysteroid inactivation reactions 
including the formation of 3-epiecdyson under ecdysone oxidase and 
3-dehydroecdysone 3α-reductase (3DE 3α-reductase). In this paper, we cloned and 
characterized 3-dehydroecdysone 3α-reductase (3DE 3α-reductase) in different 
tissues and developing stage of the silkworm, Bombyx mori L. The B. mori 3DE 
3α-reductase cDNA contains an ORF 783 bp and the deduced protein sequence 
containing 260 amino acid residues. Analysis showed the deduced 3DE 3α-reductase 
belongs to SDR family, which has the NAD(P)-binding domain. Using the 
Escherichia coli, a high level expression of a fusion polypeptide band of 
approx. 33 kDa was observed. High transcription of 3DE 3α-reductase was mainly 
presented in the midgut and hemolymph in the third day of fifth instar larvae in 
silkworm. The expression of 3DE 3α-reductase at different stages of larval 
showed that the activity in the early instar was high, and then reduced in late 
instar. This is parallel to the changes of molting hormone titer in larval. 3DE 
3α-reductase is key enzyme in inactivation path of ecdysteroid. The data 
elucidate the regulation of 3DE 3α-reductase in ecdyteroid titer of its 
targeting organs and the relationship between the enzyme and metamorphosis.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.21115
PMID: 24038161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1687. Metab Eng. 2020 Sep;61:89-95. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.05.009. Epub 2020 Jun 2.

Cell-free styrene biosynthesis at high titers.

Grubbe WS(1), Rasor BJ(1), Krüger A(1), Jewett MC(2), Karim AS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Chemistry of Life Processes Institute, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Center for Synthetic Biology, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Chemistry of Life Processes Institute, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Center for Synthetic Biology, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA; Simpson Querrey 
Institute, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA. Electronic address: 
m-jewett@northwestern.edu.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University, 
Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Chemistry of Life Processes Institute, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA; Center for Synthetic Biology, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA. Electronic address: 
ashty.karim@northwestern.edu.

Styrene is an important petroleum-derived molecule that is polymerized to make 
versatile plastics, including disposable silverware and foamed packaging 
materials. Finding more sustainable methods, such as biosynthesis, for producing 
styrene is essential due to the increasing severity of climate change as well as 
the limited supply of fossil fuels. Recent metabolic engineering efforts have 
enabled the biological production of styrene in Escherichia coli, but styrene 
toxicity and volatility limit biosynthesis in cells. To address these 
limitations, we have developed a cell-free styrene biosynthesis platform. The 
cell-free system provides an open reaction environment without cell viability 
constraints, which allows exquisite control over reaction conditions and greater 
carbon flux toward product formation rather than cell growth. The two 
biosynthetic enzymes required for styrene production were generated via 
cell-free protein synthesis and mixed in defined ratios with supplemented 
L-phenylalanine and buffer. By altering the time, temperature, pH, and enzyme 
concentrations in the reaction, this approach increased the cell-free titer of 
styrene from 5.36 ± 0.63 mM to 40.33 ± 1.03 mM, the highest amount achieved 
using biosynthesis without process modifications and product removal strategies. 
Cell-free systems offer a complimentary approach to cellular synthesis of small 
molecules, which can provide particular benefits for producing toxic molecules.

Copyright © 2020 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.05.009
PMID: 32502620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1688. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2017 Sep;114(9):2066-2074. doi: 10.1002/bit.26319. Epub 2017 
May 12.

Engineering of an H(2) O(2) auto-scavenging in vivo cascade for pinoresinol 
production.

Lv Y(1), Cheng X(2), Du G(1), Zhou J(1), Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education and School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, 
China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China.

Pinoresinol is a natural lignan with a high market value that has potential 
pharmacological and food supplement applications. Pinoresinol is currently 
isolated from plants, which suffers from low efficiency and yield. To produce 
pinoresinol from inexpensive and industrially available eugenol, an in vivo 
enzymatic cascade composed of vanillyl alcohol oxidase and peroxidase was 
designed, which scavenges H2 O2 automatically and eliminates protein 
purification and cofactor addition. Two peroxidases were screened and identified 
from Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), and tested in the enzymatic cascade. To 
balance the flux, different genetic architectures were constructed by using 
ePathBrick and fusion gene approaches. Scavenging H2 O2 alleviated by-product 
toxicity and enzyme inhibition, and led to efficient pinoresinol production. 
Optimization of the reaction conditions achieved a titer of 11.29 g/L 
pinoresinol. The molar yield and productivity were 52.77% and 1.03 g/(L × h), 
respectively. The elegant strategy developed herein utilizes the harmful 
by-product to drive the biosynthetic reaction forward and simultaneously 
detoxify cells, thereby preventing enzyme inhibition. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 
2017;114: 2066-2074. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26319
PMID: 28436004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1689. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Dec;92(2):171-82. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.09.002. Epub 
2013 Sep 15.

Process development and production of cGMP grade Melan-A for cancer vaccine 
clinical trials.

Bardliving CL(1), Lowe AJ, Huang CJ, Manley L, Ritter G, Old L, Batt CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, 
USA. Electronic address: clb267@cornell.edu.

Melan-A is a cancer testis antigen commonly found in melanoma, and has been 
shown to stimulate the body's immune response against cancerous cells. We have 
developed and executed a process utilizing current good manufacturing practices 
(cGMP) to produce the 6 times-His tagged protein in C41DE3 Escherichia coli for 
use in Phase I clinical trials. Approximately 11 g of purified Melan-A were 
produced from a 20 L fed-batch fermentation. Purification was achieved through a 
three column process utilizing immobilized metal affinity, anion exchange, and 
cation exchange chromatography with a buffer system optimized for 
low-solubility, high LPS binding capacity proteins. The host cell proteins, 
residual DNA, and endotoxin concentration were well below limits for a 
prescribed dose with a final purity level of 91%.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.09.002
PMID: 24045055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1690. PLoS One. 2017 Jun 5;12(6):e0178469. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0178469. 
eCollection 2017.

Selection and characterization of specific nanobody against bovine virus 
diarrhea virus (BVDV) E2 protein.

Li T(1), Huang M(2), Xiao H(1), Zhang G(3), Ding J(1), Wu P(1), Zhang H(1), 
Sheng J(1), Chen C(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 
Xinjiang, China.
(2)Shihezi University Library, Shihezi University, Shihezi, Xinjiang, China.
(3)College of Life Science, Shihezi University, Shihezi, Xinjiang, China.

Bovine viral diarrhea-mucosal disease (BVD-MD) is caused by bovine viral 
diarrhea virus (BVDV), and results in abortion, stillbirth, and fetal 
malformation in cows. Here, we constructed the phage display vector pCANTAB 
5E-VHH and then transformed it into Escherichia coli TG1-competent cells, to 
construct an initial anti-BVDV nanobody gene library. We obtained a BVDV-E2 
antigen epitope bait protein by prokaryotic expression using the nucleotide 
sequence of the E2 gene of the BVDV-NADL strain published in GenBank. Phage 
display was used to screen the anti-BVDV nanobody gene library. We successfully 
constructed a high quality phage display nanobody library, with an initial 
library capacity of 4.32×105. After the rescue of helper phage, the titer of the 
phage display nanobody library was 1.3×1011. The BVDV-E2 protein was then 
expressed in Escherichia coli (DE3), and a 49.5 kDa band was observed with 
SDS-PAGE analysis that was consistent with the expected nanobody size. Thus, we 
were able to isolate one nanobody that exhibits high affinity and specificity 
against BVDV using phage display techniques. This isolated nanobody was then 
used in Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay and qRT-PCR, and ELISA analyses of 
BVDV infection of MDBK cells indicated that the nanobodies exhibited good 
antiviral effect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0178469
PMCID: PMC5459339
PMID: 28582444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1691. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2011 Aug;27(8):1183-90.

[Antigen selection, optimized expression and polyclonal antibody preparation of 
O-GlcNAcase].

[Article in Chinese]

Lin L(1), Li G, Li Z, Xu Y, Tian G, Li J, Liu Y.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and State Key Laboratory of Element-Organic Chemistry, 
Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China.

In order to probe the biological function of O-GlcNAc and the pathogenesis of 
associated diseases, it is essential to prepare a potent and specific 
O-GlcNAcase (OGA) antibody. Based on protein sequence analysis, we found N 
terminal 1-350 amino acids of OGA (sOGA) has high antigenicity and 
hydrophilicity and then constructed it into plasmid pET28a vector. First, we 
optimized the expression of sOGA in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) (0.05 mmol/L 
IPTG, 10 hours) and purified it with the Ni-NTA affinity chromatography and size 
exclusion chromatography respectively. SDS-PAGE verified the molecular weight 
(45 kDa) and the purity (>95%) of sOGA and the purified protein was subjected to 
immunize New Zealand rabbits. Finally, we obtained OGA polyclonal antibody by 
affinity purifying the antiserum with CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B beads. Western 
blotting and ELISA assay showed that this antibody could recognize three OGA 
isoforms with high specificity and the sensitivity was 0.11 ng/mL (the titer was 
1:80 000). These results indicated the prepared polyclonal antibody of OGA can 
be used for the biological function study of OGA.

PMID: 22097807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2000 Mar 5;67(5):565-74.

Observations of green fluorescent protein as a fusion partner in genetically 
engineered Escherichia coli: monitoring protein expression and solubility.

Cha HJ(1), Wu CF, Valdes JJ, Rao G, Bentley WE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Agricultural Biotechnology, University of Maryland Biotechnology 
Institute, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA. hjcha@postech.ac.kr

We have constructed three plasmid vectors for the expression of green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins using the following motif: 
(His)(6)-GFP-EK-X, where X represents chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase (CAT), 
human interleukin-2 (hIL-2), and organophosphorous hydrolase (OPH), 
respectively, (His)(6) represents a histidine affinity ligand for purification, 
and EK represents an enterokinase cleavage site for recovering the 
protein-of-interest from the fusion. The CAT and OPH fusion products ( 
approximately 63 kDa GFP/CAT and approximately 70 kDa GFP/OPH) were expressed at 
4.85 microg/mL (19.9 microg/mg-total protein) and 1.42 microg/mL (4.2 
microg/mg-total protein) in the cell lysis supernatant, and, in both cases, 
enzymatic activity was retained while coupled to GFP. In the case of hIL-2 
fusion ( approximately 52 kDa), however, the GFP fluorescence was significantly 
reduced and most of the fusion was retained in the cell pellet. Linear 
relationships between GFP fluorescence and CAT or OPH concentration, and with 
enzymatic activity of CAT or OPH, indicated, for the first time, that in vivo 
noninvasive quantification of proteins-of-interest, was made possible by simple 
measurement of GFP fluorescence intensity. The utility of GFP as a reporter was 
not realized without disadvantages however, in particular, an incremental 
metabolic cost of GFP was found. This could be offset by many benefits foreseen 
in expression and purification efficiencies.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

PMID: 10649231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. ACS Synth Biol. 2019 Jun 21;8(6):1469-1472. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00045. Epub 
2019 May 30.

Characterization of a Panel of Strong Constitutive Promoters from Streptococcus 
thermophilus for Fine-Tuning Gene Expression.

Kong LH(1), Xiong ZQ(1), Song X(1), Xia YJ(1), Zhang N(2), Ai LZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Food Microbiology, School of Medical 
Instrument and Food Engineering , University of Shanghai for Science and 
Technology , Shanghai 200093 , China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Food Science and Engineering of Heilongjiang Province , 
Harbin University of Commerce , Harbin 150076 , China.

Streptococcus thermophilus, one of the most important probiotic lactic acid 
bacteria (LAB), is widely used in the dairy industry and attracts a lot of 
attention in metabolic engineering and synthetic biology. However, the available 
well-characterized constitutive promoters are rather limited to modulate gene 
expression in S. thermophilus. Here, a pool of constitutive promoters was 
screened by RNA-seq analysis and characterized in S. thermophilus, 
Lactobacillius casei, and Escherichia coli using the reporter red fluorescent 
protein. To assess their application potential, six constitutive promoters were 
selected for the expression of superoxide dismutase and significantly improved 
enzyme activity in the above three bacteria. Moreover, two strong constitutive 
promoters were used to construct a dual-expression vector for overexpressing 
epsA and epsE, key proteins of exopolysaccharide (EPS) biosynthesis, resulting 
in the change of molecular weight and the titer of EPS. Taken together, this is 
the first well-characterized constitutive promoter library from S. thermophilus, 
which could be used as a basic toolbox for various applications in LAB and other 
bacteria.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00045
PMID: 31117359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1694. Protein Expr Purif. 2004 Sep;37(1):144-53. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.05.005.

Purification and characterization of hepatitis C virus non-structural protein 5A 
expressed in Escherichia coli.

Huang L(1), Sineva EV, Hargittai MR, Sharma SD, Suthar M, Raney KD, Cameron CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, PA 16802, USA.

We have employed a pET-ubiquitin expression system to produce two his-tagged 
forms of hepatitis C virus (HCV) non-structural protein 5A (NS5A) in Escherichia 
coli. One derivative contains the full-length protein extended to include a 
carboxy-terminal hexahistidine tag; the other derivative contains an 
amino-terminal hexahistidine tag in place of the 32 amino acid amphipathic helix 
that mediates membrane association. At least 1 mg of each derivative at a purity 
of 90% could be produced from a 1-L culture. The purified derivatives produced 
high titer antibody that recognized both p56 and p58 forms of NS5A in Huh-7.5 
cells expressing an HCV subgenomic replicon. The NS5A derivatives were 
efficiently phosphorylated by casein kinase II, leading to at least 5 mol of 
phosphate incorporated per mole of protein. Interestingly, this level of 
phosphorylation did not alter the migration of the protein in an 
SDS-polyacrylamide gel, suggesting that hyperphosphorylation alone is not 
sufficient to generate the p58 form of NS5A observed in Huh-7 cells. Neither 
NS5A derivative was capable of inhibiting the eIF2alpha-phosphorylation activity 
of the activated form of the double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase, PKR, 
suggesting that NS5A phosphorylation may be required for this function of NS5A. 
However, both unphosphorylated derivatives were shown to interact with NS5B, the 
HCV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, in solution by using a novel kinase-protection 
assay. The availability of purified HCV NS5A will permit rigorous biochemical 
and biophysical characterization of this protein, ultimately providing insight 
into the function of this protein during HCV genome replication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2004.05.005
PMID: 15294292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1695. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2011 Sep;27(5):456-61.

[The role of vimentin during PRRSV infection of Marc-145 cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang WW(1), Zhang L, Ma XC, Gao JM, Xiao YH, Zhou EM.

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shandong Agricultural 
University, TaiAn, Shandong 271018, China. wangww@163.com

The objective of this study was to investigate the function of vimentin in PRRSV 
infection. Vimentin gene from Marc-145 cells was amplified by RT-PCR, cloned 
into pET-28a vector and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The expressed 
vimentin was confirmed by Western blot and purified which was used to immunize 
BALB/c mice for the production of antibodies. Vimentin and antibodies were 
tested for blocking PRRSV infection of Marc-145 cells. The binding of vimentin 
to PRRSV N and GP5 proteins were tested by the ELISA. The results showed that 
vimentin gene was amplified successfully and expressed as identified by SDS-PAGE 
and Western blot. Mouse anti-vimentin antibodies were produced with the titer of 
10(5). PRRSV infection of Marc-145 cells was blocked partially by vimentin while 
blocked completely by the antibobies. In addition, vimentin was bound N protein, 
but not GP5. These results provide additional information on PRRSV entry into 
Marc-145 cells.

PMID: 21998958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1696. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2006 Apr 14;342(3):881-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2006.02.036. Epub 2006 Feb 20.

Cloning, expression, and preliminary structural characterization of RTN-1C.

Fazi B(1), Melino S, Di Sano F, Cicero DO, Piacentini M, Paci M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Science and Chemical Technologies, University of Rome Tor 
Vergata, Italy.

Reticulons (RTNs) are endoplasmic reticulum-associated proteins widely 
distributed in plants, yeast, and animals. They are characterized by unique 
N-terminal parts and a common 200 amino acid C-terminal domain containing two 
long hydrophobic sequences. Despite their implication in many cellular 
processes, their molecular structure and function are still largely unknown. In 
this study, the reticulon family member RTN-1C has been expressed and purified 
in Escherichia coli and its molecular structure has been analysed by 
fluorescence and CD spectroscopy in different detergents in order to obtain a 
good solubility and a relative stability. The isotopically enriched protein has 
been also produced to perform structural studies by NMR spectroscopy. The 
preliminary results obtained showed that RTN-1C protein possesses helical 
transmembrane segments when a membrane-like environment is produced by 
detergents. Moreover, fluorescence experiments indicated the exposure of 
tryptophan side chains as predicted by structure prediction programs. We also 
produced the isotopically labelled protein and the procedure adopted allowed us 
to plan future NMR studies to investigate the biochemical behaviour of 
reticulon-1C and of its peptides spanning out from the membrane.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2006.02.036
PMID: 16500619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1697. Anal Biochem. 2003 Jul 1;318(1):71-9. doi: 10.1016/s0003-2697(03)00162-3.

Screening methods to determine biophysical properties of proteins in structural 
genomics.

Woestenenk EA(1), Hammarström M, Härd T, Berglund H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), SE-106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden.

We have developed and tested a simple and efficient protein purification method 
for biophysical screening of proteins and protein fragments by nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR) and optical methods, such as circular dichroism spectroscopy. 
The method constitutes an extension of previously described protocols for gene 
expression and protein solubility screening [M. Hammarström et al., (2002), 
Protein Science 11, 313]. Using the present purification scheme it is possible 
to take several target proteins, produced as fusion proteins, from cell pellet 
to NMR spectrum and obtain a judgment on the suitability for further structural 
or biophysical studies in less than 1 day. The method is independent of 
individual protein properties as long as the target protein can be produced in 
soluble form with a fusion partner. Identical procedures for cell culturing, 
lysis, affinity chromatography, protease cleavage, and NMR sample preparation 
then initially require only optimization for different fusion partner and 
protease combinations. The purification method can be automated, scaled up or 
down, and extended to a traditional purification scheme. We have tested the 
method on several small human proteins produced in Escherichia coli and find 
that the method allows for detection of structured proteins and unfolded or 
molten globule-like proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-2697(03)00162-3
PMID: 12782033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1698. Infect Immun. 2006 Aug;74(8):4573-80. doi: 10.1128/IAI.01679-05.

Immunity to recombinant plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 1 
(MSP1): protection in Aotus nancymai monkeys strongly correlates with anti-MSP1 
antibody titer and in vitro parasite-inhibitory activity.

Singh S(1), Miura K, Zhou H, Muratova O, Keegan B, Miles A, Martin LB, Saul AJ, 
Miller LH, Long CA.

Author information:
(1)Antigen Research Section, Malaria Vaccine Development Branch, National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases/National Institutes of Health, TW1, 
Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA. ssingh@niaid.nih.gov

A number of malarial blood-stage candidate vaccines are currently being tested 
in human clinical trials, but our understanding of the relationship between 
clinical immunity and data obtained from in vitro assays remains inadequate. An 
in vitro assay which could reliably predict protective immunity in vivo would 
facilitate vaccine development. Merozoite surface protein1 (MSP1) is a leading 
blood-stage malaria vaccine candidate, and anti-MSP1 antibodies from individuals 
that are clinically immune to malaria inhibit the invasion of Plasmodium 
merozoites into erythrocytes in vitro. Using expression in Escherichia coli and 
subsequent refolding, we have produced two allelic forms of MSP1(42) (FVO and 
3D7). Aotus nancymai monkeys were immunized with MSP1(42)-FVO, MSP1(42)-3D7, or 
a combination of FVO and 3D7 allelic forms, (MSP1(42)-C1) and were subsequently 
challenged with Plasmodium falciparum FVO parasites. Sera obtained prior to 
challenge were tested by standardized enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
to determine antibody titer, and immunoglobulin G (IgG) fractions were also 
obtained from the same sera; the IgG fractions were tested in an in vitro growth 
inhibition (GI) assay to evaluate biological activity of the antibodies. 
Regardless of the immunogen used, all monkeys that had >200,000 ELISA units 
against MSP1(42)-FVO antigen before challenge controlled their infections. By 
contrast, all monkeys whose purified IgGs gave <60% inhibition activity in an in 
vitro GI assay with P. falciparum FVO required treatment for high parasitemia 
after challenge. There is a strong correlation between ELISA units (Spearman 
rank correlation of greater than 0.75) or GI activity (Spearman rank correlation 
of greater than 0.70) and protective immunity judged by various parameters 
(e.g., cumulative parasitemia or day of patency). These data indicate that, in 
this monkey model, the ELISA and GI assay values can significantly predict 
protective immunity induced by a blood-stage vaccine, and they support the use 
of these assays as part of evaluation of human clinical trials of MSP1-based 
vaccines.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.01679-05
PMCID: PMC1539572
PMID: 16861644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1699. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Oct;42(10):1341-52. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-015-1668-8. Epub 2015 Aug 15.

Directed optimization of a newly identified squalene synthase from Mortierella 
alpine based on sequence truncation and site-directed mutagenesis.

Huang D(1)(2)(3), Yao Y(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2), Mei Z(1)(2), Wang R(1)(2), Feng 
L(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Liu B(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)TEDA Institute of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Nankai University, 
TEDA, Tianjin, 300457, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin, 300071, People's Republic of China.
(3)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Microbial Functional Genomics, Tianjin, 300457, 
People's Republic of China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology, Nankai University, 
Tianjin, 300071, People's Republic of China.
(5)SynBio Research Platform, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science 
and Engineering (Tianjin), Tianjin, 300072, People's Republic of China.
(6)TEDA Institute of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Nankai University, 
TEDA, Tianjin, 300457, People's Republic of China. liubin1981@nankai.edu.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin, 300071, People's Republic of China. 
liubin1981@nankai.edu.cn.
(8)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Microbial Functional Genomics, Tianjin, 300457, 
People's Republic of China. liubin1981@nankai.edu.cn.

Terpenoids, a class of isoprenoids usually isolated from plants, are always used 
as commercial flavor and anticancer drugs. As a key precursor for triterpenes 
and sterols, biosynthesis of squalene (SQ) can be catalyzed by squalene synthase 
(SQS) from two farnesyl diphosphate molecules. In this work, the key SQS gene 
involved in sterols synthesis by Mortierella alpine, an industrial strain often 
used to produce unsaturated fatty acid such as γ-linolenic acid and arachidonic 
acid, was identified and characterized. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that 
MaSQS contained 416 amino acid residues involved in four highly conserved 
regions. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the closest relationship of MaSQS with 
Ganoderma lucidum and Aspergillus, which also belonged to the member of the 
fungus. Subsequently, the recombinant protein was expressed in Escherichia coli 
BL21(DE3) and detected by SDS-PAGE. To improve the expression and solubility of 
protein, 17 or 27 amino acids in the C-terminal were deleted. In vitro activity 
investigation based on gas chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed that both 
the truncated enzymes could functionally catalyze the reaction from FPP to SQ 
and the enzymatic activity was optimal at 37 °C, pH 7.2. Moreover, based on the 
site-directed mutagenesis, the mutant enzyme mMaSQSΔC17 (E186K) displayed a 
3.4-fold improvement in catalytic efficiency (k(cat)/K(m)) compared to the 
control. It was the first report of characterization and modification of SQS 
from M. alpine, which facilitated the investigation of isoprenoid biosynthesis 
in the fungus. The engineered mMaSQSΔC17 (E186K) can be a potential candidate of 
the terpenes and steroids synthesis employed for synthetic biology.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-015-1668-8
PMID: 26275528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. Anal Biochem. 2014 Apr 15;451:63-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2014.01.019. Epub 2014 Feb 
10.

A human kringle domain-based fluorescence-linked immunosorbent assay system.

Jeong GM(1), Kim YS(2), Jeong KJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute 
of Science and Technology (KAIST), Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 305-701, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular Science and Technology, Ajou University, 
Yeongtong-gu, Suwon 443-749, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute 
of Science and Technology (KAIST), Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 305-701, Republic of 
Korea; Institute for the BioCentury, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology (KAIST), Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 305-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: kjjeong@kaist.ac.kr.

Erratum in
    Anal Biochem. 2014 Sep 1;460:61.

As a non-immunoglobulin protein scaffold, human kringle domain (KD) has 
attractive properties such as high specificity, stability, and production in 
bacterial hosts. Here, we developed a rapid and sensitive fluorescence-linked 
immunosorbent assay (FLISA) system using a fluorescent kringle domain (fluoKD), 
a fusion protein of a green fluorescent protein (GFP), and a kringle domain 
variant (KD548). Two kinds of fluoKDs in which KD was fused to the N terminus of 
GFP (N-fluoKD) or the C terminus of GFP (C-fluoKD) were constructed and 
characterized. In Escherichia coli host, both fluoKDs were produced in high 
yield and solubility and were successfully purified by a simple procedure. The 
purified fluoKDs exhibited strong fluorescent activities and high affinities to 
the target antigen. Furthermore, it was successfully demonstrated that the FLISA 
with purified fluoKDs allowed for more rapid detection of target antigens with 
higher sensitivity compared with conventional enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA), indicating that a simple, rapid, and sensitive immunoassay system could 
be developed by using KD instead of antibody or antibody fragments.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2014.01.019
PMID: 24525040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1701. Mol Med Rep. 2013 Aug;8(2):517-22. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1503. Epub 2013 May 31.

Monoclonal antibody preparation of Golgi phosphoprotein 2 and preliminary 
application in the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Ju Q(1), Zhao Y, Liu Y, Zhou G, Li F, Xie P, Li Y, Li GC.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer 
Invasion Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis Ministry of 
Health, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan 410078, P.R. China.

Golgi phosphoprotein 2 (Golph2) is a type II Golgi‑specific membrane protein, 
which has been found to be overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
patients. The sensitivity of diagnosis of HCC using Golph2 (76%) was markedly 
elevated compared with alpha‑fetoprotein (AFP) (70%), and Golph2 is expected to 
be a novel and effective serum biomarker for the diagnosis of HCC. The aim of 
this study was to prepare monoclonal antibodies against Golph2 and to establish 
double-antibody sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (s-ELISA), which will 
be used in diagnostics, therapeutics and as a tool in understanding the role of 
Golph2 in the pathogenesis of liver diseases and cancer. In this study, fusion 
protein TRX-Golph2 was expressed and purified using an Escherichia coli system. 
BALB/c mice were immunized with TRX-Golph2 recombinant protein. The hybridoma 
technique was used for the production of anti-Golph2 monoclonal antibody. 
Hybridoma clones were screened using indirect ELISA and anti-Golph2 monoclonal 
antibody was produced in the ascites of BALB/c mice. The specificity of 
anti-Golph2 monoclonal antibody was detected by western blot analysis and 
immunocytochemistry. s-ELISA was established using horseradish peroxidase 
(HRP)‑labeled anti-Golph2 monoclonal antibody and used to detect the antigen in 
the serum of HCC patients. As a result, five stable hybridoma cell clones 
(5C6D5, 5B7F5, 7F5F3, 8A7B4, 8C9E8) producing anti-Golph2 monoclonal antibody 
were established. The highest titer of anti-Golph2 monoclonal antibody (5C6D5) 
was 1:51,200. Western blot analysis revealed that anti-Golph2 monoclonal 
antibody had a high specificity for Golph2 protein. Anti-Golph2 monoclonal 
antibody was HRP-labeled and the optimal working concentration was found to be 
1:500. The levels of antigen in a proportion of HCC patients were shown to be 
significantly higher compared to those found in healthy controls.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1503
PMID: 23727927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Acc Chem Res. 2021 Dec 21;54(24):4565-4575. doi: 10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00588. 
Epub 2021 Dec 10.

Designer Heme Proteins: Achieving Novel Function with Abiological Heme 
Analogues.

Lemon CM, Marletta MA.

Heme proteins have proven to be a convenient platform for the development of 
designer proteins with novel functionalities. This is achieved by substituting 
the native iron porphyrin cofactor with a heme analogue that possesses the 
desired properties. Replacing the iron center of the porphyrin with another 
metal provides one inroad to novel protein function. A less explored approach is 
substitution of the porphyrin cofactor with an alternative tetrapyrrole 
macrocycle or a related ligand. In general, these ligands exhibit chemical 
properties and reactivity that are distinct from those of porphyrins. While 
these techniques have most prominently been utilized to develop artificial 
metalloenzymes, there are many other applications of this methodology to 
problems in biochemistry, health, and medicine. Incorporation of synthetic 
cofactors into protein environments represents a facile way to impart water 
solubility and biocompatibility. It circumvents the laborious synthesis of 
water-soluble cofactors, which often introduces substantial charge that leads to 
undesired bioaccumulation. To this end, the incorporation of unnatural cofactors 
in heme proteins has enabled the development of designer proteins as optical 
oxygen sensors, MRI contrast agents, spectroscopic probes, tools to interrogate 
protein function, antibiotics, and fluorescent proteins.Incorporation of an 
artificial cofactor is frequently accomplished by denaturing the holoprotein 
with removal of the heme; the refolded apoprotein is then reconstituted with the 
artificial cofactor. This process often results in substantial protein loss and 
does not necessarily guarantee that the refolded protein adopts the native 
structure. To circumvent these issues, our laboratory has pioneered the use of 
the RP523 strain of E. coli to incorporate artificial cofactors into heme 
proteins using expression-based methods. This strain lacks the ability to 
biosynthesize heme, and the bacterial cell wall is permeable to heme and related 
molecules. In this way, heme analogues supplemented in the growth medium are 
incorporated into heme proteins. This approach can also be leveraged for the 
direct expression of the apoprotein for subsequent reconstitution.These 
methodologies have been exploited to incorporate non-native cofactors into heme 
proteins that are resistant to harsh environmental conditions: the heme nitric 
oxide/oxygen binding protein (H-NOX) from Caldanaerobacter subterraneus (Cs) and 
the heme acquisition system protein A (HasA) from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa). 
The exceptional stability of these proteins makes them ideal scaffolds for 
biomedical applications. Optical oxygen sensing has been accomplished using a 
phosphorescent ruthenium porphyrin as the artificial heme cofactor. Paramagnetic 
manganese and gadolinium porphyrins yield high-relaxivity, protein-based MRI 
contrast agents. A fluorescent phosphorus corrole serves as a heme analogue to 
produce fluorescent proteins. Iron complexes of nonporphyrin cofactors bound to 
HasA inhibit the growth of pathogenic bacteria. Moreover, HasA can deliver a 
gallium phthalocyanine into the bacterial cytosol to serve as a sensitizer for 
photochemical sterilization. Together, these examples illustrate the potential 
for designer heme proteins to address burgeoning problems in the areas of health 
and medicine. The concepts and methodologies presented in this Account can be 
extended to the development of next-generation biomedical sensing and imaging 
agents to identify and quantify clinically relevant metabolites and other key 
disease biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.1c00588
PMCID: PMC8754152
PMID: 34890183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1703. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Mar 19;54(3):1979-87. doi: 
10.1167/iovs.12-10740.

Conserved regional 3' grouping of rare codons in the coding sequence of ocular 
prosecretory mitogen lacritin.

McKown RL(1), Raab RW, Kachelries P, Caldwell S, Laurie GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrated Science and Technology, James Madison University, 
Harrisonburg, VA, USA.

PURPOSE: Lacritin is a prosecretory mitogen in tears and, although a tear 
protein, it promotes basal tearing and lacrimal gland secretion. Since scale up 
is relevant to its potential use in the treatment of dry eye, we explored 
various mutagenic strategies to alter the stability, solubility, and 
translational efficiency of nascent lacritin, and discovered 3' clustering of 
rare human codons.
METHODS: Site-directed mutagenesis of lacritin coding cDNA "pLAC" generated 24 
different nonsynonymous and 13 synonymous mutations. Nonsynonymous mutations 
altered amino acids with nonpolar, basic or acidic side chains to serine. 
Synonymous mutation progressively optimized human codons that are rare or 
uncommon in Escherichia coli without changing the amino acid specified. These 
changes were validated by sequencing and protein production, and analyzed via 
the "rare codon calculator" (RCC). Nonhuman primate and nonprimate lacritin 
coding sequences were extracted from Ensembl, and analyzed via RCC using codon 
usage appropriate for each species.
RESULTS: Superior yields were obtained by modification of individual hydrophobic 
residues or a predicted salt bridge, suggesting that production was limited by 
lacritin stability. Accordingly, elimination of rare codons increased yields 
less effectively. Importantly, RCC analysis of human, nonhuman primate (mouse 
lemur) and nonprimate (cat, tree shrew) lacritin coding sequences revealed 
remarkable 3' clustering of rare codons, unlike human lipocalin-1 and 21 other 
widely expressed human tear genes.
CONCLUSIONS: Lacritin protein yields were improved primarily by hydrophobic or 
salt bridge mutagenesis and less so by elimination of rare codons. The 3' 
clustering of rare codons is conserved in all lacritin orthologs examined.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-10740
PMCID: PMC3604909
PMID: 23422824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: R.L. McKown, EyeRx Research, Inc. 
(E); R.W. Raab, None; P. Kachelries, None; S. Caldwell, None; G.W. Laurie, EyeRx 
Research, Inc. (C), P


1704. Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2005 Feb;32(2):111-7.

[Screen in vivo induced gene of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by IVIAT].

[Article in Chinese]

Li T(1), Gao ZY, Wang HL, Feng EL, Chen ZD, Li XY, Huang LY, Huang CF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Beijing 100071, China. viruslt@hotmail.com

In order to search new candidates of pharmaceutical target, in vivo induced 
antigen technology (IVIAT) was used to screen in vivo induced (ivi) genes of 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. TB). Genomic expression library of M. TB was 
first constructed with an inducible plasmid pKK223-8; the titer of the library 
was 1.02 x 10(5) CFU. Sera from ten tuberculosis patients were pooled and 
absorbed against in vitro-grown M. TB and Escherichia coli, and used to probe 
the genomic expression library. 16 positive clones were identified by 
immunological screen, including 22 ORF: two encoding lipid metabolism proteins, 
five information pathways proteins, two PE/PPE proteins, six intermediary 
metabolism and respiration proteins, one cell wall and cell processes protein, 
four conserved hypothetical proteins and two conserved hypothetical proteins 
with an orthologue in Mycobacterium bovis. Parts of these genes can be used as 
candidates of pharmaceutical target because they may be relate with virulence.

PMID: 15759856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1705. J Chromatogr A. 2020 Jun 21;1621:461051. doi: 10.1016/j.chroma.2020.461051. Epub 
2020 Mar 17.

Two chromatographic schemes for protein purification involving the biotin/avidin 
interaction under native conditions.

Raducanu VS(1), Tehseen M(1), Shirbini A(1), Raducanu DV(1), Hamdan SM(2).

Author information:
(1)King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Division of Biological 
and Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia.
(2)King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Division of Biological 
and Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia. 
Electronic address: samir.hamdan@kaust.edu.sa.

The strength of the biotin/avidin interaction makes it an ideal tool for the 
purification of biotin-labeled proteins via avidin-coupled resin with high 
specificity and selectivity. Nevertheless, this tight binding comes at an extra 
cost of performing the elution step under denaturing conditions. Weakening the 
biotin/avidin interaction improves the elution conditions, but only to mild or 
harsh denaturing buffers with the drawback of reducing the specificity and 
selectivity of this interaction. Here, we present two chromatographic protein 
purification schemes that are well-suited for application under native 
conditions thus preserving the strength of the biotin/avidin interaction. In the 
first scheme, we introduce a biotin-labeled SUMO-tag to each of human flap 
endonuclease 1 and Escherichia coli replication termination protein Tus, and 
elute both proteins by performing on-resin cleavage using SUMO protease. In the 
second scheme, we immobilize biotin-labeled human proliferating cell nuclear 
antigen (PCNA) on the avidin-coupled resin and use the resulting resin as a 
tag-free affinity method to purify the PCNA-binding protein human DNA Ligase 1. 
Furthermore, we streamlined the protein biotinylation protocol by constructing a 
single plasmid expression system that ensures high level of expression and 
solubility for each of the target protein bearing the biotin-tag and the enzyme 
responsible for the in vivo biotinylation reaction. Both chromatographic schemes 
resulted in a high yield of pure proteins in their native form.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chroma.2020.461051
PMID: 32268955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


1706. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Mar;52(1):40-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.07.025. Epub 
2006 Aug 12.

Bacterial expression and purification of the ovine type II bone morphogenetic 
protein receptor ectodomain.

Mace PD(1), Cutfield JF, Cutfield SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Otago School of Medical Sciences, University of 
Otago, P.O. Box 56, Dunedin 9001, New Zealand. peter.mace@stonebow.otago.ac.nz

Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are essential for a wide range of 
developmental processes. They signal through type I and type II serine/threonine 
kinase receptors, and differ from other TGF-beta family members in that the type 
II receptor binds with a lower affinity than the type I. Here, we describe the 
development of various Escherichia coli expression systems for the extracellular 
domain of the ovine type II bone morphogenetic protein receptor. In order to 
facilitate disulfide bond formation and protein solubility, BMPRII was expressed 
fused to bacterial thioredoxin, which, following cleavage, could be purified 
using several chromatography steps. Although this material migrated as a single 
band in denaturing PAGE, native-PAGE indicated heterogeneity, and this protein 
could not be crystallised. When expressed alone, either containing a histidine 
tag or as an untagged protein, the receptor ectodomain was deposited as 
insoluble inclusion bodies. Protein subjected to in vitro refolding procedures 
exhibited multiple species following anion exchange chromatography and size 
exclusion chromatography, as visualised on native-PAGE. Separation of these 
species could be achieved using a MonoP chromatofocusing matrix. One of these 
separated fractions, representing about 5% of the starting material, was 
amenable to crystallisation, and furthermore exhibited biological activity. 
Crystals of the histidine-tagged form were shown to diffract weakly, whereas 
crystals of the native form grew in two different morphologies, and diffracted 
to a resolution of 1.2A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2006.07.025
PMID: 16982201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1707. Mol Med Rep. 2014 Nov;10(5):2657-62. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2014.2537. Epub 2014 Sep 
4.

An enhanced immune response against G250, induced by a heterologous DNA 
prime‑protein boost vaccination, using polyethyleneimine as a DNA vaccine 
adjuvant.

Sun Z(1), Liu B(2), Ruan X(3), Liu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urinary Surgery, Qianfoshan Hospital Affiliated to Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shangdong 250013, P.R. China.
(2)Intensive Care Unit, Affiliated Hospital of Jinin Medical College, Jining, 
Shandong 272000, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong 250021, P.R. China.

The heterologous DNA prime‑protein boost vaccination approach has been widely 
applied as an immune treatment for carcinoma. However, inefficient delivery of 
DNA remains a major issue. In the present study, polyethyleneimine (PEI) was 
used as a DNA vector carrier to improve the transfection efficiency of the DNA 
vaccine and stimulate the humoral and cellular immunity against the renal 
carcinoma‑associated antigen G250. A protein vaccine was included in the 
immunization strategy in order to produce a prime‑boost effect. A DNA plasmid 
encoding an antigen G250 fragment was constructed and complexed with PEI. A 
protein vaccine against G250 was expressed in BL21 (DE3) Escherichia coli cells, 
by transformation with a pET28a(+)/C‑G250 plasmid. The protein was purified 
using a nickel‑nitriloacetic acid purification system. The in vitro transfection 
efficiency of the DNA vaccine was analyzed in HEK293 human endothelial kidney 
cells. The in vitro transfection efficiency in HEK293 cells was highest 48 h 
after transfection. Furthermore, mice were primed with 200 µg pVAX1/C‑250 
plasmid complexed with PEI, and boosted using 50 µg of purified C‑G250 protein. 
In order to evaluate the immune response the antibody titer, splenocyte 
response, and interferon‑γ levels from CD8+ T‑cell splenocytes were analyzed 
using ELISA, lymphocyte proliferation or enzyme‑linked immunosorbent spot 
assays. Firstly, the pVAX1/C‑G250 plasmid was shown to be constructed 
successfully. As compared with the DNA group, the antibody titer, lymphocyte 
proliferation percentage, and cytokine production level induced by the DNA‑PEI 
and DNA‑PEI+C‑G250 groups were significantly higher. Furthermore, the 
DNA‑PEI+C‑G250 group exhibited the strongest humoral and cellular response. 
Owing to the adjuvant effect of PEI, the pVAX1/C‑G250‑PEI prime plus C‑G250 
protein boost regimen could induce a strong immune response, and has been proved 
to be a potent vaccine candidate against renal cell carcinoma.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2014.2537
PMID: 25190325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1708. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Sep;100(17):7471-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-016-7456-1. Epub 2016 Mar 29.

Efficient production of enantiomerically pure D-phenyllactate from 
phenylpyruvate by structure-guided design of an engineered D-lactate 
dehydrogenase.

Wang M(1)(2), Zhu L(2), Xu X(3), Wang L(2), Yin R(4), Yu B(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei, 230039, People's Republic 
of China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)Institute of Ageing Research, School of Medicine, Hangzhou Normal University, 
Hangzhou, 311121, China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei, 230039, People's Republic 
of China. adamyin@163.com.
(5)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, 
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100101, 
People's Republic of China. yub@im.ac.cn.

3-Phenyllactic acid (PLA) is an antimicrobial compound with broad-spectrum 
activity against bacteria and fungi that could be widely used in the food 
industry and livestock feeds. Notably, D-PLA exhibits higher antibacterial 
activity, which gains more attention than L-PLA. In this report, the D-lactate 
dehydrogenase DLDH744 from Sporolactobacillus inulinus CASD was engineered to 
increase the enzymatic activities toward phenylpyruvate by protein 
structure-guided modeling analysis. The phenylpyruvate molecule was first docked 
in the active center of DLDH744. The residues that might tightly pack around the 
benzene ring of phenylpyruvate were all selected for mutation. The single site 
mutant M307L showed the highest increased activity toward bulkier substrate 
phenylpyruvate than the wild type. By using the engineered D-lactate 
dehydrogenase M307L expressed in Escherichia coli strains, without coexpression 
of the cofactor regeneration system, 21.43 g/L D-PLA was produced from 
phenylpyruvate with a productivity of 1.58 g/L/h in the fed-batch 
biotransformation process, which ranked in the list as the highest production 
titer of D-PLA by D-lactate dehydrogenase. The enantiomeric excess value of 
produced D-PLA in the broth was higher than 99.7 %. Additionally, the 
structure-guided design of this enzyme will also provide referential information 
for further engineering other 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases, which are useful for 
a wide range of fine chemical synthesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-016-7456-1
PMID: 27020295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1709. Protein Sci. 2000 Oct;9(10):2018-25. doi: 10.1110/ps.9.10.2018.

Purification and refolding of vascular endothelial growth factor-B.

Scrofani SD(1), Fabri LJ, Xu P, Maccarone P, Nash AD.

Author information:
(1)AMRAD Operations Pty Ltd, Richmond, Victoria, Australia.

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A interacts with the receptor tyrosine 
kinases VEGF-R1 and R2, and the importance of this interaction in endothelial 
cell (EC) function and blood vessel development has been well documented. Other 
ligands that interact differentially with these receptors and that are 
structurally related to VEGF-A include VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, and placenta 
growth factor (PLGF). Compared with VEGF-A, relatively little is known about the 
biological role of the VEGF-R1 specific ligand, VEGF-B. Two splice variant 
isoforms that differ at the COOH-terminus and which retain unique solubility 
characteristics are widely expressed throughout embryonic and postnatal 
development. Recent analysis of mice with a targeted deletion of the VEGF-B gene 
has revealed a defect in heart development and function consistent with an 
important role in vascularization of the myocardium (Bellomo D et al., 2000, 
Circ Res 86:E29-E35). To facilitate further characterization of VEGF-B, we have 
developed a protocol for expression and purification of refolded recombinant 
protein from Escherichia coli inclusion bodies (IBs). The approach developed 
resolves a number of significant issues associated with VEGF-B, including the 
ability to heterodimerize with endogenous VEGF-A when co-expressed in mammalian 
cells, a complex secondary structure incorporating inter- and intrachain 
disulfide bonds and hydrophobic characteristics that preclude the use of 
standard chromatographic resins. The resulting purified disulfide-linked 
homodimer was demonstrated to bind to VEGF-R1 and to compete with VEGF-A for 
binding to this receptor.

DOI: 10.1110/ps.9.10.2018
PMCID: PMC2144466
PMID: 11106176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1710. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2003 Mar;19(2):217-22.

[Preparation and functional study of an adenovirus vector expressing human 
plasminogen kringle 5 gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang J(1), Wang YX, Guan XQ, Ma CG, Wang LS, Song HY.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Ministry of Education, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200032, China. hysong@shmu.edu.cn

Tumor angiogenesis plays a pivotal role in the progress of tumor. Among the 
various endogenous angiogenic inhibitors discovered, the human plasminogen 
kringle 5 (K5) has been demonstrated to be a potential inhibitor of the 
proliferation and migration of vascular endothelial cells in vitro. The 
replication-incompetent adenovirus (Ad) vector Adeno-X-CMV-K5 (Ad-K5) (where CMV 
is cytomegalovirus) was constructed and its antiangiogenic effect was tested on 
vascular endothelial cell and tumor cell. For the construction, the K5 cDNA was 
fused in-frame with human plasminogen signal sequence and inserted into the 
eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3 to form pcDNA3K5. The recombinant plasmid 
was subcloned into the shuttle plasmid pShuttle under the control of the 
constitutive CMV immediate-early promoter. The plasmid carrying the cDNA for K5 
(pShuttleKS) was then recombined with the Adeno-X viral DNA and transformed into 
E. coli DH5alpha. The resultant recombinant plasmid pAd-K5 was transfected into 
human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells with liposome. The adenovirus expressing 
human plasminogen kringle 5 (Ad-K5) was successfully packaged and propagated in 
293 cells, as detected by the cytopathic effect (CPE) on the cells, and the 
viral titer in the supernatant was 5 x 10(8) pfu/mL by plaque assay. Both human 
umbilical vein endothelial cell line ECV304 and human breast carcinoma cell line 
MDA-MB-231 were infected with Ad-K5 and Ad-LacZ, which was used the negative 
control, and assayed by MTT 
(3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay. Compared 
with uninfected control and Ad-LacZ infected control, Ad-K5 infected group at 80 
MOI (multiplicity of infection) significantly inhibited ECV304 proliferation; 
the difference between uninfected control and Ad-LacZ infected control was not 
significant. In contrast, there was no significant difference in the 
proliferation of MDA-MB-231 among all the treatments. In addition, the Ad-K5 at 
100 MOI inhibited the differentiation and tube formation of ECV304 on ECMatrix 
gel. These results suggested that the recombinant replication-defective 
Adenovirus expressing human plasminogen kringle 5 inhibited the proliferation, 
differentiation and tube formation of ECV304 and had no effect on the 
proliferation of MDA-MB-231. Adenovirus mediated human plasminogen kringle 5 
gene therapy may be a potential treatment of cancer through angiogenesis 
inhibition.

PMID: 15966325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1711. FEBS Lett. 2002 Mar 13;514(2-3):290-4. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02383-9.

Expression of Fab fragment of catalytic antibody 6D9 in an Escherichia coli in 
vitro coupled transcription/translation system.

Jiang X(1), Ookubo Y, Fujii I, Nakano H, Yamane T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, Graduate School of Biological and 
Agricultural Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, 
Japan.

The heavy chain (Hc) and light chain (Lc) genes of the Fab fragment of a 
catalytic antibody 6D9 were simultaneously expressed in an Escherichia coli in 
vitro transcription/translation system without a reducing agent. The 
intermolecular disulfide bond between the Hc and Lc was found formed, suggesting 
a correct formation of the Fab fragment in the in vitro system. In enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay, the Fab fragment synthesized in vitro exhibited an 
antigen-binding activity. Addition of reduced glutathione, oxidized glutathione, 
protein disulfide-isomerase and molecular chaperones, GroEL and GroES, increased 
the solubility and the antigen-binding activity of the Fab fragment greatly. The 
in vitro synthesized Fab was purified by means of a hexa-histidine tag attached 
to the C-terminus of the Hc. Catalytic assay of the purified Fab fragment showed 
that the His-tagged Fab fragment synthesized in vitro had a catalytic activity 
comparable to that produced in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02383-9
PMID: 11943168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1712. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2013 Apr;26(4):267-75. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzs106. Epub 
2013 Jan 11.

Tolerance of the archaeal Sac7d scaffold protein to alternative library designs: 
characterization of anti-immunoglobulin G Affitins.

Béhar G(1), Bellinzoni M, Maillasson M, Paillard-Laurance L, Alzari PM, He X, 
Mouratou B, Pecorari F.

Author information:
(1)Université de Nantes, UMR CNRS 6204, Ingénierie de la reconnaissance, F-44322 
Nantes, France.

Engineered protein scaffolds have received considerable attention as 
alternatives to antibodies in both basic and applied research, as they can offer 
superior biophysical properties often associated with a simpler molecular 
organization. Sac7d has been demonstrated as an effective scaffold for molecular 
recognition. Here, we used the initial L1 'flat surface' library constructed by 
randomization of 14 residues, to identify ligands specific for human 
immunoglobulin G. To challenge the plasticity of the Sac7d protein scaffold, we 
designed the alternative L2 'flat surface & loops' library whereof only 10 
residues are randomized. Representative binders (Affitins) of the two libraries 
exhibited affinities in the low nanomolar range and were able to recognize 
different epitopes within human immunoglobulin G. These Affitins were stable up 
to pH 12 while largely conserving other favorable properties of Sac7d protein, 
such as high expression yields in Escherichia coli, solubility, thermal 
stability up to 80.7°C, and acidic stability (pH 0). In agreement with our 
library designs, mutagenesis study revealed two distinct binding areas, one 
including loops. Together, our results indicate that the Sac7d scaffold 
tolerates alternative library designs, which further expands the diversity of 
Affitins and may provide a general way to create tailored affinity tools for 
demanding applications.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzs106
PMID: 23315487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1713. J Biol Chem. 2009 Jun 26;284(26):17420-7. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.016014. Epub 
2009 May 5.

A 25-amino acid sequence of the Arabidopsis TGD2 protein is sufficient for 
specific binding of phosphatidic acid.

Lu B(1), Benning C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, MI 48824, USA.

Genetic analysis suggests that the TGD2 protein of Arabidopsis is required for 
the biosynthesis of endoplasmic reticulum derived thylakoid lipids. TGD2 is 
proposed to be the substrate-binding protein of a presumed lipid transporter 
consisting of the TGD1 (permease) and TGD3 (ATPase) proteins. The TGD1, -2, and 
-3 proteins are localized in the inner chloroplast envelope membrane. TGD2 
appears to be anchored with an N-terminal membrane-spanning domain into the 
inner envelope membrane, whereas the C-terminal domain faces the intermembrane 
space. It was previously shown that the C-terminal domain of TGD2 binds 
phosphatidic acid (PtdOH). To investigate the PtdOH binding site of TGD2 in 
detail, the C-terminal domain of the TGD2 sequence lacking the transit peptide 
and transmembrane sequences was fused to the C terminus of the Discosoma sp. red 
fluorescent protein (DR). This greatly improved the solubility of the resulting 
DR-TGD2C fusion protein following production in Escherichia coli. The DR-TGD2C 
protein bound PtdOH with high specificity, as demonstrated by membrane 
lipid-protein overlay and liposome association assays. Internal deletion and 
truncation mutagenesis identified a previously undescribed minimal 25-amino acid 
fragment in the C-terminal domain of TGD2 that is sufficient for PtdOH binding. 
Binding characteristics of this 25-mer were distinctly different from those of 
TGD2C, suggesting that additional sequences of TGD2 providing the proper context 
for this 25-mer are needed for wild type-like PtdOH binding.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.016014
PMCID: PMC2719382
PMID: 19416982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1714. Vaccine. 2010 Nov 29;28(51):8175-82. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.09.091. Epub 
2010 Oct 23.

Biochemical characterizations of Escherichia coli-expressed protective antigen 
Ag473 of Neisseria meningitides group B.

Sung JW(1), Hsieh SY, Lin CL, Leng CH, Liu SJ, Chou AH, Lai LW, Lin LH, Kwok Y, 
Yang CY, Chong P.

Author information:
(1)Vaccine Research and Development Center, National Health Research Institutes, 
Zhunan Town, Miaoli County 350, Taiwan.

Polysaccharide-based vaccines against Neisseria meningitidis (Nm) serogroups A, 
C, Y and W135 have been available since 1970, but similar vaccine candidates 
developed for Nm group B (NmB) have not been successful due to both poor 
immunogenicity and their potential immunological cross-reactivity with human 
neurological tissue. In previous reports, a protective antigen and vaccine 
candidate, Ag473, was identified using proteomics and NmB-specific bactericidal 
monoclonal antibody. To initiate human phase one clinical trials, antigen 
production and characterization, pre-clinical toxicology and animal studies are 
required. In the present study, we report the biochemical characterization of 
Escherichia coli-expressed recombinant Ag473 (rAg473). Using MALDI-TOF mass 
analysis, chromatographically purified rAg473 was found to have two major 
isoforms that have molecular masses of 11,306 and 11,544amu, respectively. The 
isoforms were separated using RP-HPLC and pooled into two fractions. Based on 
the chromatogram, the ratio of lipoproteins in fractions #1 and #2 was found to 
be 1-2. GC-MS analysis of lipoproteins was performed, and the acylated fatty 
acids were identified. The results indicated that the first lipoproteins in 
fraction #1 contained the lipids palmitic acid (C16:0), cyclopropaneoctanoic 
acid (C17:1) and, predominately, stearic acid (C18:0). A different lipid 
composition of cyclopropaneoctanoic acid (C17:1), oleic acid (C18:1) and, 
predominately, palmitic acid (C16:0) was found in the second lipoprotein 
fraction. Both lipoprotein isoforms were tested and found to have Toll-like 
receptor (TLR) agonist activity in stimulating cytokine secretion from THP-1 
cells. Circular dichroism (CD) analysis showed the secondary structure of rAg473 
to be dominated by α-helices (48%), and the overall protein structure was stable 
up to 60°C and could refold after having been exposed to a temperature cycle 
from 20 to 90°C. In addition, the solubility of rAg473 (5mg/mL) was not affected 
after several freeze-thaw cycles. These biophysical and immunological properties 
make rAg473 a good vaccine candidate against NmB.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.09.091
PMID: 20937316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1715. Avian Dis. 2006 Dec;50(4):579-85. doi: 10.1637/7535-032706R1.1.

Protective immunity enhanced by chimeric DNA prime-protein booster strategy 
against Eimeria tenella challenge.

Xu SZ(1), Chen T, Wang M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
China Agricultural University, Beijing 100094, PR China.

In an attempt to investigate the immune efficacy ofa DNA prime-protein booster 
strategy against avian coccidiosis with a chimeric construct, the Eimeria 
tenella antigen gene (3-1E) and chicken interferon gamma gene (ChIFN-gamma) were 
subcloned into the mammalian expression vector proVAX forming the plasmids proE 
and prol, and then linked by splicing overlap extension by polymerase chain 
reaction to construct the chimeric plasmid prolE; the chimeric protein (rlE) was 
expressed in Escherichia coli harboring the constructed plasmid pGEX/IE. 
Broilers were administered two intramuscular injections with the constructed DNA 
vaccines (50 microg); in the protein booster groups 100 microg of the rlE were 
given following the proIE prime. After challenge the proIE-vaccinated chickens 
showed the protective immunity as demonstrated by significantly reduced oocyst 
shedding compared with chickens immunized with proE, but the prolE vaccine did 
not have an additive effect of increasing antibody titer and body weight gain. 
The chickens in the rlE booster groups had significantly higher specific 
antibody responses than those immunized with prolE, and displayed further 
decreased oocyst shedding and increased body weight gain. Taken together, these 
results indicate that ChIFN-gamma exerts an adjuvant effect coexpressed with 
3-1E and provide the first evidence that the DNA prime-protein booster strategy 
is able to augment the protective efficacy of chimeric DNA vaccine against 
challenge with Eimeria tenella.

DOI: 10.1637/7535-032706R1.1
PMID: 17274297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. Biochemistry. 2007 Nov 6;46(44):12656-64. doi: 10.1021/bi701215e. Epub 2007 Oct 
12.

Fibronectin type III domain based monobody with high avidity.

Duan J(1), Wu J, Valencia CA, Liu R.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.

Significant efforts have been made to improve the target-binding strength of 
numerous affinity molecules that are widely used in biomedical research and 
clinical applications. While many antibody-like fragments have been successfully 
optimized through affinity maturation, the process is time-consuming and 
restricted by the stability, solubility, and expression level of the protein 
sequences. To generate a fibronectin type III domain (FN3) based monobody that 
binds to the tumor-related biomarkers with exceptional high strength and 
stability, we developed a multivalent strategy by fusing an alphavbeta3-binding 
FN3 monobody with a short COMP pentamerization domain through a linker that 
facilitates appropriate display of multivalent FN3 domains. The fusion protein 
was highly expressed in the soluble fraction of Escherichia coli and efficiently 
self-assembled into a pentameric molecule that could be readily purified. 
Compared to the monomeric form, the pentameric monobody bound to alphavbeta3 
integrin much more tightly with significantly slower off-rate, while still 
maintaining its excellent specificity toward alphavbeta3 when tested by using 
purified integrins and integrin-expressing cell lines. The multivalent strategy 
we describe here could be applied to engineer other FN3 monobodies to acquire 
significantly improved targeting-binding strengths.

DOI: 10.1021/bi701215e
PMID: 17929945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1717. FEBS Lett. 2004 Jul 16;570(1-3):30-6. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2004.06.021.

Cryptic endotoxic nature of Bacillus thuringiensis Cry1Ab insecticidal crystal 
protein.

Vazquez-Padron RI(1), de la Riva G, Agüero G, Silva Y, Pham SM, Soberón M, Bravo 
A, Aïtouche A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and the Vascular Biology Institute, University of 
Miami, R104, P.O. Box 019132, Miami, FL 33101, USA. rvazquez@med.miami.edu

Cry1Ab is one of the most studied insecticidal proteins produced by Bacillus 
thuringiensis during sporulation. Structurally, this protoxin has been divided 
in two domains: the N-terminal toxin core and the C-terminal portion. Although 
many studies have addressed the biochemical characteristics of the active toxin 
that corresponds to the N-terminal portion, there are just few reports studying 
the importance of the C-terminal part of the protoxin. Herein, we show that 
Cry1Ab protoxin has a unique natural cryptic endotoxic property that is evident 
when their halves are expressed individually. This toxic effect of the separate 
protoxin domains was found against its original host B. thuringiensis, as well 
as to two other bacteria, Escherichia coli and Agrobacterium tumefaciens. 
Interestingly, either the fusion of the C-terminal portion with the insecticidal 
domain-III or the whole N-terminal region reduced or neutralized such a toxic 
effect, while a non-Cry1A peptide such as maltose binding protein did not 
neutralize the toxic effect. Furthermore, the C-terminal domain, in addition to 
being essential for crystal formation and solubility, plays a crucial role in 
neutralizing the toxicity caused by a separate expression of the insecticidal 
domain much like a dot/anti-dot system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2004.06.021
PMID: 15251434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. Curr Microbiol. 2013 Oct;67(4):480-6. doi: 10.1007/s00284-013-0387-5. Epub 2013 
May 29.

Use of an algD promoter-driven expression system for the degradation of 
hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) by Pseudomonas sp. HK-6.

Lee BU(1), Baek H, Oh KH.

Author information:
(1)Divison of Biological Sciences, Kosin University, Busan 606-701, Republic of 
Korea.

Pseudomonas sp. HK-6 is able to utilize hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine 
(RDX) as a sole nitrogen source. The HK-6 strain was stimulated to produce an 
exopolymer, mainly alginate, as a stress response when grown in LB broth 
containing RDX, synthesizing ~230 μg/mL after 48 h. The algA mRNA levels in HK-6 
increased by 7-8-fold after 2-6 h of exposure to 0.1 mM RDX, as measured by 
RT-qPCR. HK-6 was able to degrade ~25 % of 0.1 mM RDX after 20 days and 60 % 
after 50 days, whereas the pnrB null mutant only degraded less than 1 % after 
50 days. The introduction of an algD promoter-pnrB gene fusion into the pnrB 
mutant fully restored RDX-degradation capability. To facilitate a study of PnrB 
action on RDX, a His6-PnrB fusion protein was heterologously expressed in E. 
coli BL21 cells, and the enzymatic activity on RDX was assayed by measuring the 
decrease in absorbance at 340 nm due to NADH oxidation. At the fixed condition 
of 0.1 mM RDX, 0.2 mM NADH, and 1 μg His6-PnrB, the absorbance at 340 nM 
gradually decreased and reached to its minimum value after 30 min. However, 
calculating the V max and K m values of PnrB for RDX was challenging due to 
extremely low solubility of RDX in water. The results clearly indicate the 
potential use of the algD promoter in studies of some genes in Pseudomonas 
species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-013-0387-5
PMID: 23715665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2020 Jun;412(16):3925-3933. doi: 10.1007/s00216-020-02451-9. 
Epub 2020 Mar 11.

Dielectrophoretic analysis of the impact of isopropyl alcohol on the electric 
polarisability of Escherichia coli whole-cells.

Epping MS(1), Wedde S(2)(3), Grundmann A(1), Radukic M(1)(4), Gröger H(2), 
Hummel A(2), Viefhues M(5).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Biophysics and Applied Nanosciences, Department of Physics, 
Bielefeld University, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(2)Industrial Organic Chemistry and Biotechnology, Department of Chemistry, 
Bielefeld University, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(3)Fermentation Engineering, Department of Technology, Bielefeld University, 
33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(4)Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology, Department of Technology, Bielefeld 
University, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany.
(5)Experimental Biophysics and Applied Nanosciences, Department of Physics, 
Bielefeld University, 33615, Bielefeld, Germany. 
viefhues@physik.uni-bielefeld.de.

Whole-cell biocatalysts are versatile tools in (industrial) production 
processes; though, the effects that impact the efficiency are not fully 
understood yet. One main factor that affects whole-cell biocatalysts is the 
surrounding medium, which often consists of organic solvents due to low 
solubility of substrates in aqueous solutions. It is expected that organic 
solvents change the biophysical and biochemical properties of the whole-cell 
biocatalysts, e.g. by permeabilising the cell membrane, and thus analysis of 
these effects is of high importance. In this work, we present an analysis method 
to study the impact of organic solvents on whole-cell biocatalysts by means of 
dielectrophoresis. For instance, we evaluate the changes of the characteristic 
dielectrophoretic trapping ratio induced by incubation of Escherichia coli, 
serving as a model system, in an aqueous medium containing isopropyl alcohol. 
Therefore, we could evaluate the impact on the electric polarisability of the 
cells. For this purpose, a special microchannel device was designed and 
Escherichia coli cells were genetically modified to reliably synthesise a green 
fluorescent protein. We could demonstrate that our method was capable of 
revealing different responses to small changes in isopropyl alcohol 
concentration and incubation duration. Complementary spectrophotometric UV-Vis 
(ultraviolet-visible light) absorbance analysis of released NAD(P)+/NAD(P)H 
cofactor and proteins confirmed our results. Based on our results, we discuss 
the biophysical effects taking place during incubation. Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-020-02451-9
PMCID: PMC7235074
PMID: 32157360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


1720. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2005 Sep 15;1725(2):160-73. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbagen.2005.07.009.

Purification, characterization, cDNA cloning, and expression of 
asialofetuin-binding C-type lectin from eggs of shishamo smelt (Osmerus 
[Spirinchus] lanceolatus).

Hosono M(1), Sugawara S, Ogawa Y, Kohno T, Takayanagi M, Nitta K.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Tohoku Pharmaceutical University, 4-4-1 
Komatsushima, Aoba-ku, Sendai 981-8558, Japan.

A novel C-type lectin (OLABL) was isolated from the eggs of shishamo smelt 
[Osmerus (Spirinchus) lanceolatus] by affinity chromatography on 
asialofetuin-Sepharose. OLABL had a molecular mass of 29 kDa on SDS-PAGE under 
nonreducing conditions and two subunits with masses of 15 kDa (OLABL-H) and 14 
kDa (OLABL-L) under reducing conditions. Thus, OLABL is a heterodimeric protein. 
cDNA sequence analysis revealed that the H- and L-subunits of OLABL were 
composed of 137 and 136 amino acid residues, respectively, and showed almost 
identical (95%) sequences, with slight differences in the N-terminal and 
C-terminal regions. Since each subunit contained only the characteristic motif 
of C-type lectin-like domain (CTLD), EPN-E-WND, OLABL is a member of group VII 
of the CTLD-containing protein family. Although OLABL had an EPN sequence that 
is known as a mannose-specific motif found in the collectin family, OLABL 
agglutinated rabbit erythrocytes without the addition of Ca(2+) ion, and this 
activity was inhibited by l-rhamnose and d-galactose derivatives, but not by 
d-mannose and d-glucose. These results indicate that OLABL has similar 
characteristics to AJL-2, a calcium-independent lactose specific lectin isolated 
from Japanese eel skin mucus. Recombinant OLABLs (rHisOLABLs), His-tagged 
homodimers of the H- and L-subunits, were refolded from inclusion bodies 
expressed by Escherichia coli. rHisOLABL-L was recovered as a soluble form, but 
rHisOLABL-H was hardly dissolved in a renaturing buffer. The specific activities 
of rHisOLABL-L, rHisOLABL-H, and native OLABL were 500, 36, and 20, 
respectively. These findings suggest that the combination of subunits may affect 
the solubility and activity of these dimeric form lectins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbagen.2005.07.009
PMID: 16112459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1721. Sci Rep. 2019 Jun 21;9(1):9022. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-45440-4.

Immunization with merozoite surface protein 2 fused to a Plasmodium-specific 
carrier protein elicits strain-specific and strain-transcending, opsonizing 
antibody.

Eacret JS(1), Gonzales DM(1), Franks RG(1), Burns JM Jr(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Molecular Parasitology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
Drexel University College of Medicine, 2900 Queen Lane, Philadelphia, PA, 19129, 
USA.
(2)Center for Molecular Parasitology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
Drexel University College of Medicine, 2900 Queen Lane, Philadelphia, PA, 19129, 
USA. jmb53@drexel.edu.

Vaccine trials and cohort studies in Plasmodium falciparum endemic areas 
indicate that naturally-acquired and vaccine-induced antibodies to merozoite 
surface protein 2 (MSP2) are associated with resistance to malaria. These data 
indicate that PfMSP2 has significant potential as a component of a multi-antigen 
malaria vaccine. To overcome challenges encountered with subunit malaria 
vaccines, we established that the use of highly immunogenic rPfMSP8 as a carrier 
protein for leading vaccine candidates rPfMSP119 and rPfs25 facilitated antigen 
production, minimized antigenic competition and enhanced induction of functional 
antibodies. We applied this strategy to optimize a rPfMSP2 (3D7)-based subunit 
vaccine by producing unfused rPfMSP2 or chimeric rPfMSP2/8 in Escherichia coli. 
rPfMSP2 formed fibrils, which induced splenocyte proliferation in an antigen 
receptor-independent, TLR2-dependent manner. However, fusion to rPfMSP8 
prevented rPfMSP2 amyloid-like fibril formation. Immunization of rabbits 
elicited high-titer anti-PfMSP2 antibodies that recognized rPfMSP2 of the 3D7 
and FC27 alleles, as well as native PfMSP2. Competition assays revealed a 
difference in the specificity of antibodies induced by the two rPfMSP2-based 
vaccines, with evidence of epitope masking by rPfMSP2-associated fibrils. Rabbit 
anti-PfMSP2/8 was superior to rPfMSP2-elicited antibody at opsonizing P. 
falciparum merozoites for phagocytosis. These data establish rPfMSP8 as an 
effective carrier for a PfMSP2-based subunit malaria vaccine.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-45440-4
PMCID: PMC6588637
PMID: 31227760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


1722. Bioresour Technol. 2014 Oct;170:513-521. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2014.08.016. 
Epub 2014 Aug 8.

A highly active beta-glucanase from a new strain of rumen fungus Orpinomyces 
sp.Y102 exhibits cellobiohydrolase and cellotriohydrolase activities.

Chen YC(1), Chen WT(1), Liu JC(2), Tsai LC(3), Cheng HL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Pingtung University 
of Science and Technology, 1, Shuehfu Rd., Neipu, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Graduate Institute of Bioresources, National Pingtung University of Science 
and Technology, 1, Shuehfu Rd., Neipu, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)Institute of Organic and Polymeric Materials, National Taipei University of 
Technology, 1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao E. Rd., Taipei 10608, Taiwan, ROC.
(4)Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Pingtung University 
of Science and Technology, 1, Shuehfu Rd., Neipu, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan, ROC. 
Electronic address: hlcheng@mail.npust.edu.tw.

A new strain of rumen fungus was isolated from Bos taurus, identified and 
designated Orpinomyces sp.Y102. A clone, celC7, isolated from the cDNA library 
of Orpinomyces sp.Y102, was predicted to encode a protein containing a signal 
peptide (Residues 1-17), an N-terminal dockerin-containing domain, and a 
C-terminal cellobiohydrolase catalytic domain of glycoside hydrolase family 6. 
CelC7 was insoluble when expressed in Escherichia coli. Deletion of 17 or 105 
residues from the N-terminus significantly improved its solubility. The 
resulting enzymes, CelC7(-17) and CelC7(-105), were highly active to β-glucan 
substrates and were stable between pH 5.0 and 11.0. CelC7(-105) worked as an 
exocellulase releasing cellobiose and cellotriose from acid-swollen Avicel and 
cellooligosaccharides, and displayed a Vmax of 6321.64μmole/min/mg and a Km of 
2.18mg/ml to barley β-glucan. Further, the crude extract of CelC7(-105) 
facilitated ethanol fermentation from cellulose. Thus, CelC7(-105) is a good 
candidate for industrial applications such as biofuel production.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2014.08.016
PMID: 25164344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. J Neuroendocrinol. 2007 Nov;19(11):882-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2826.2007.01602.x.

Mutant and misfolded human growth hormone is rapidly degraded through the 
proteasomal degradation pathway in a cellular model for isolated growth hormone 
deficiency type II.

Kannenberg K(1), Wittekindt NE, Tippmann S, Wolburg H, Ranke MB, Binder G.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology Section, University Children's Hospital, Tübingen, 
Germany. kai.kannenberg@med.uni-tuebingen.de

Autosomal dominant isolated growth hormone deficiency type II (IGHD II) is 
mainly caused by splice site mutations of the GH-1 gene, leading to deletion of 
amino acids 32-71 of the human growth hormone (hGH). The severe hGH deficit in 
IGHD II suggests a dominant negative effect of the partially deleted 
del(32-71)-hGH on the production, storage or secretion of normal wild-type 
(wt)-hGH in somatotrophic cells of the pituitary. To shed more light on the 
cellular and molecular basis of IGHD II, we established and analysed diverse 
clones of the rat somatotrophic cell line GH(4)C(1) stably expressing either 
wt-hGH, del(32-71)-hGH, or both proteins concomitantly. The cellular morphology 
of all transfected GH(4)C(1) cell clones showed moderate differences to 
untransfected GH(4)C(1) cells. On the molecular level, both cDNA-constructs 
induced transcription but, under normal culture conditions, only wt-hGH protein 
was found to be synthesised and secreted in readily detectable amounts. By 
contrast, only after inhibition of proteasomes did high amounts of 
del(32-71)-hGH show up. The solubility of del(32-71)-hGH in nondenaturing buffer 
was poor compared to wt-hGH, hinting at molecular aggregation, and several 
epitopes recognised by monoclonal hGH antibodies were not present on 
del(32-71)-hGH, confirming the assumption that del(32-71)-hGH must be severely 
misfolded. Expression of both proteins in Escherichia coli mirrored the findings 
from the GH(4)C(1) cell clones in terms of solubility and immunological 
reactivity. The results of the present study indicate that, in IGHD II, 
somatotrophs continuously have to remove misfolded del(32-71)-hGH via the 
proteasomal degradation pathway, suggesting a mechanism that may result in 
chronic cellular stress.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2007.01602.x
PMID: 17927666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1724. J Biosci Bioeng. 2014 May;117(5):652-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2013.11.003. Epub 
2013 Dec 12.

Role of disulfide bond isomerase DsbC, calcium ions, and hemin in cell-free 
protein synthesis of active manganese peroxidase isolated from Phanerochaete 
chrysosporium.

Ninomiya R(1), Zhu B(1), Kojima T(1), Iwasaki Y(1), Nakano H(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, Graduate School of Bioagricultural 
Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, Graduate School of Bioagricultural 
Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan. 
Electronic address: hnakano@agr.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

A cell-free protein synthesis system can produce various types of proteins 
directly from DNA templates such as PCR products, and therefore attracts great 
attention as an alternative protein synthesis system especially for 
high-throughput functional screening of proteins. Here, we report successful 
expression of active Phanerochaete chrysosporium manganese peroxidase (MnP) in 
an Escherichia coli cell-free protein synthesis system, wherein reaction 
conditions such as the concentrations of hemin, calcium ions, and disulfide bond 
isomerase were optimized to increase the solubility and activity of the 
synthesized enzyme. Moreover, cell-free synthesized MnP purified using the 
hemagglutinin tag showed higher specific activity than the commercial wild-type 
enzyme, suggesting that the cell-free system can be used as a preparative method 
for efficient synthesis of disulfide bond-containing metalloenzymes such as MnP. 
We believe that our system is a solid foundation for the development of a 
high-throughput screening method for the directed evolution of these enzymes.

Copyright © 2013 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2013.11.003
PMID: 24332478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 May 27;21(11):3769. doi: 10.3390/ijms21113769.

Affibody-Binding Ligands.

Barozzi A(1), Lavoie RA(1), Day KN(1), Prodromou R(1), Menegatti S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, North Carolina State 
University, Raleigh, NC 27695-7905, USA.
(2)Biomanufacturing Training and Education Center (BTEC), North Carolina State 
University, Raleigh, NC 27695-7905, USA.

While antibodies remain established therapeutic and diagnostic tools, other 
protein scaffolds are emerging as effective and safer alternatives. Affibodies 
in particular are a new class of small proteins marketed as bio-analytic 
reagents. They feature tailorable binding affinity, low immunogenicity, high 
tissue permeation, and high expression titer in bacterial hosts. This work 
presents the development of affibody-binding peptides to be utilized as ligands 
for their purification from bacterial lysates. Affibody-binding candidates were 
identified by screening a peptide library simultaneously against two model 
affibodies (anti-immunoglobulin G (IgG) and anti-albumin) with the aim of 
selecting peptides targeting the conserved domain of affibodies. An ensemble of 
homologous sequences identified from screening was synthesized on Toyopearl® 
resin and evaluated via binding studies to select sequences that afford high 
product binding and recovery. The affibody-peptide interaction was also 
evaluated by in silico docking, which corroborated the targeting of the 
conserved domain. Ligand IGKQRI was validated through purification of an 
anti-ErbB2 affibody from an Escherichia coli lysate. The values of binding 
capacity (~5 mg affibody per mL of resin), affinity (KD ~1 μM), recovery and 
purity (64-71% and 86-91%), and resin lifetime (100 cycles) demonstrate that 
IGKQRI can be employed as ligand in affibody purification processes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21113769
PMCID: PMC7312911
PMID: 32471034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision 
to publish the results.


1726. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2015 Nov;31(11):1623-31.

[Prokaryotic expression of Staphylococcus aureus Clumping factor B and 
evaluation of the antiserum-mediated opsonic activity].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L, Cao S, Zhang Y, Xuan C, Wu Y, Hu S.

Staphylococcus aureus is a major cause of hospital-acquired infection. Because 
the bacteria are very easy to become resistant to antibiotics, vaccination is a 
main method against S. aureus infection. Clumping factor B (ClfB) is an adhesion 
molecule essential for S. aureus to colonize in the host mucosa and is regarded 
as an important target antigen. In this study, we successfully used Escherichia 
coli to express a segment encoding the N1-N3 regions of ClfB protein 
(Truncated-ClfB) cloned from S. aureus. The protein was purified by affinity and 
ion exchange chromatographies and gel filtration. Rabbits were immunized three 
times with purified Truncated-ClfB. After that, blood was collected to prepare 
serum which were then used for measurement of antibody level. Phagocytosis of S. 
aureus opsonized by the serum was determined by a flow cytometry. Results show 
that the serum IgG titer reached 1:640 000. Phagocytosed S. aureus by 
polymorphonuclear leukocytes were significantly more when the bacteria were 
opsonized by the serum from Truncated-ClfB immunized rabbits than those from no 
immunized group (P < 0.01). Therefore, the results indicated that Truncated-ClfB 
could be a promising vaccine candidate against S. aureus infection.

PMID: 26939445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1727. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2016 Jan;32(1):105-13.

[Preparation and detection of anti-influenza A virus polymerase basic protein 1 
polyclonal antibody].

[Article in Chinese]

Qin Y, Zhang T, Ye X.

Influenza A virus is an enveloped virus that belongs to the Orthomyxoviridae 
family. It has 8 negative RNA segments that encode 16 viral proteins. The viral 
polymerase consists of 3 proteins (PB 1, PB2 and PA) which plays an important 
role in the transcription and replication of the influenza A virus. Polymerase 
basic protein 1 (PB 1) is a critical member of viral polymerase complex. In 
order to further study the function of PB1, we need to prepare the PB1 antibody 
with good quality. Therefore, we amplified PB1 conserved region (nt1648-2265) by 
PCR and cloned it into pET-30a vector, and transformed into Escherichia coli BL2 
1. The expression of His tagged PB 1 protein was induced by IPTG, and His-PB 1 
proteins were purified by Ni-NTA resin. For preparation of PB 1 protein 
antiserum, rabbits were immunized with His-PB 1 fusion protein 3 times. Then the 
titer of PB 1 polyclonal antibody was measured by indirect ELISA. The antibody 
was purified by membrane affinity purification and subjected to immunoblotting 
analysis. Data showed that PB1 antibody can recognize PB 1 protein from WSN 
virus infected or pCMV FLAG-PB 1 transfected cells. Meanwhile, PB 1 antibody can 
also recognize specifically other subtype strains of influenza A virus such as 
H9N2 and H3N2. PB 1 polyclonal antibody we generated will be a useful tool to 
study the biological function of PB1.

PMID: 27363203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1728. Curr Microbiol. 2017 Feb;74(2):247-256. doi: 10.1007/s00284-016-1182-x. Epub 
2016 Dec 21.

Characterization of Cinnamoyl Esterases from Different Lactobacilli and 
Bifidobacteria.

Fritsch C(1), Jänsch A(2), Ehrmann MA(3), Toelstede S(1), Vogel RF(2).

Author information:
(1)Fraunhofer Institute for Process Engineering and Packaging IVV, Giggenhauser 
Straße 35, Freising, Germany.
(2)Technische Universität München, Technische Mikrobiologie Weihenstephan, 
Gregor-Mendel-Straße 4, Freising, Germany.
(3)Technische Universität München, Technische Mikrobiologie Weihenstephan, 
Gregor-Mendel-Straße 4, Freising, Germany. matthias.ehrmann@wzw.tum.de.

A high variety of plants that are used for food production contain esterified 
hydroxycinnamic acids. As their free forms display several benefits, like an 
enhanced absorption in human intestinal tract, anti-oxidative and 
anti-carcinogenic effects, an improved protein solubility and reduced 
discoloration, the microbial ability to cleave the ester bond is highly desired. 
In order to examine potential fermentation strains for this purpose, six 
different lactic acid bacteria and one bifidobacterial strain were screened for 
their ability to degrade esterified hydroxycinnamic acids because these strains 
are commonly used for fermentation of plant-based foods. Moreover, their 
cinnamoyl esterase activity was examined by molecular biological analyses. The 
enzymes were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and 
biochemically characterized. The purified esterases with a molecular mass around 
27-29 kDa had their optimum predominantly between pH 7 and 8 at 20-30 °C. 
Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis, Lactobacillus gasseri, Lactobacillus 
acidophilus, Lactobacillus plantarum and Lactobacillus fermentum displayed 
activities against a broad substrate range (methyl caffeate, methyl 
trans-p-coumarate, chlorogenic acid as well as partially ethyl ferulate). 
Concerning substrate affinity, reaction velocity, thermal and pH stability, 
Lactobacillus gasseri showed the overall best performance. The herein studied 
lactic acid- and bifidobacteria are promising for the production of fermented 
plant-based foods with an increased quality and nutritional value.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-016-1182-x
PMID: 27999938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. Protein Expr Purif. 2005 Nov;44(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.020.

Identification and purification of a soluble region of BubR1: a critical 
component of the mitotic checkpoint complex.

Yoon J(1), Kang Y, Kim K, Park J, Kim Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Genomic Medicine, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University, Yongon-Dong, Seoul 110-799, Korea.

The mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC) ensures the fidelity of chromosomal 
segregation, by delaying the onset of anaphase until all sister chromatids have 
been properly attached to the mitotic spindle. In essence, this MCC-induced 
delay is achieved via the inhibition of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC). 
Among the components of the MCC, BubR1 plays two major roles in the functions of 
the mitotic checkpoint. First, BubR1 is able to inhibit APC activity, either by 
itself or as a component of the MCC, by sequestering a APC coactivator, known as 
Cdc20. Second, BubR1 activates mitotic checkpoint signaling cascades by binding 
to the centromere-associated protein E, a microtubule motor protein. Obtaining 
highly soluble BubR1 is a prerequisite for the study of its structure. BubR1 is 
a multi-domain protein, which includes a KEN box motif, a mad3-like region, a 
Bub3 binding domain, and a kinase domain. We obtained a soluble BubR1 construct 
using a three-step expression strategy. First, we obtained two constructs from 
BLAST sequence homology searches, both of which were expressed abundantly in the 
inclusion bodies. We then adjusted the lengths of the two constructs by 
secondary structure prediction, thereby generating partially soluble constructs. 
Third, we optimized the solubility of the two constructs by either chopping or 
adding a few residues at the C-terminus. Finally, we obtained a highly soluble 
BubR1 construct via the Escherichia coli expression system, which allowed for a 
yield of 10.8 mg/L culture. This report may provide insight into the design of 
highly soluble constructs of insoluble multi-domain proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2005.04.020
PMID: 15946858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1730. J Bacteriol. 2004 Nov;186(21):7100-11. doi: 10.1128/JB.186.21.7100-7111.2004.

Four proteins encoded in the gspB-secY2A2 operon of Streptococcus gordonii 
mediate the intracellular glycosylation of the platelet-binding protein GspB.

Takamatsu D(1), Bensing BA, Sullam PM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, VA Medical Center (111W), 4150 Clement 
Street, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Platelet binding by Streptococcus gordonii strain M99 is mediated predominantly 
by the cell surface glycoprotein GspB. This adhesin consists of a putative 
N-terminal signal peptide, two serine-rich regions (SRR1 and SRR2), a basic 
region between SRR1 and SRR2, and a C-terminal cell wall anchoring domain. The 
glycosylation of GspB is mediated at least in part by Gly and Nss, which are 
encoded in the secY2A2 locus immediately downstream of gspB. This region also 
encodes two proteins (Gtf and Orf4) that are required for the expression of GspB 
but whose functions have not been delineated. In this study, we further 
characterized the roles of Gly, Nss, Gtf, and Orf4 by investigating the 
expression and glycosylation of a series of glutathione S-transferase-GspB 
fusion proteins in M99 and in gly, nss, gtf, and orf4 mutants. Compared with 
fusion proteins expressed in the wild-type background, fusion proteins expressed 
in the mutant strain backgrounds showed altered electrophoretic mobility. In 
addition, the fusion proteins formed insoluble aggregates in protoplasts of the 
gtf and orf4 mutants. Glycan detection and lectin blot analysis revealed that 
SRR1 and SRR2 were glycosylated but that the basic region was unmodified. When 
the fusion protein was expressed in Escherichia coli, glycosylation of this 
protein was observed only in the presence of both gtf and orf4. These results 
demonstrate that Gly, Nss, Gtf, and Orf4 are all involved in the intracellular 
glycosylation of SRRs. Moreover, Gtf and Orf4 are essential for glycosylation, 
which in turn is important for the solubility of GspB.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.186.21.7100-7111.2004
PMCID: PMC523221
PMID: 15489421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1731. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2021 Sep 28;87(20):e0133521. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01335-21. 
Epub 2021 Aug 4.

Enzymatic Synthesis of l-threo-β-Hydroxy-α-Amino Acids via Asymmetric 
Hydroxylation Using 2-Oxoglutarate-Dependent Hydroxylase from Sulfobacillus 
thermotolerans Strain Y0017.

Hara R(1), Nakajima Y(2), Yanagawa H(2), Gawasawa R(2), Hirasawa I(2), Kino 
K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Science and Engineering, Waseda Universitygrid.5290.e, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Waseda 
Universitygrid.5290.e, Tokyo, Japan.

β-Hydroxy-α-amino acids are useful compounds for pharmaceutical development. 
Enzymatic synthesis of β-hydroxy-α-amino acids has attracted considerable 
interest as a selective, sustainable, and environmentally benign process. In 
this study, we identified a novel amino acid hydroxylase, AEP14369, from 
Sulfobacillus thermotolerans Y0017, which is included in a previously 
constructed CAS-like superfamily protein library, to widen the variety of amino 
acid hydroxylases. The detailed structures determined by nuclear magnetic 
resonance and X-ray crystallography analysis of the enzymatically produced 
compounds revealed that AEP14369 catalyzed threo-β-selective hydroxylation of 
l-His and l-Gln in a 2-oxoglutarate-dependent manner. Furthermore, the 
production of l-threo-β-hydroxy-His and l-threo-β-hydroxy-Gln was achieved using 
Escherichia coli expressing the gene encoding AEP14369 as a whole-cell 
biocatalyst. Under optimized reaction conditions, 137 mM (23.4 g liter-1) 
l-threo-β-hydroxy-His and 150 mM l-threo-β-hydroxy-Gln (24.3 g liter-1) were 
obtained, indicating that the enzyme is applicable for preparative-scale 
production. AEP14369, an l-His/l-Gln threo-β-hydroxylase, increases the 
availability of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent hydroxylase and opens the way for the 
practical production of β-hydroxy-α-amino acids in the future. The amino acids 
produced in this study would also contribute to the structural diversification 
of pharmaceuticals that affect important bioactivities. IMPORTANCE Owing to an 
increasing concern for sustainability, enzymatic approaches for producing 
industrially useful compounds have attracted considerable attention as a 
powerful complement to chemical synthesis for environment-friendly synthesis. In 
this study, we developed a bioproduction method for β-hydroxy-α-amino acid 
synthesis using a newly discovered enzyme. AEP14369 from the moderate 
thermophilic bacterium Sulfobacillus thermotolerans Y0017 catalyzed the 
hydroxylation of l-His and l-Gln in a regioselective and stereoselective 
fashion. Furthermore, we biotechnologically synthesized both 
l-threo-β-hydroxy-His and l-threo-β-hydroxy-Gln with a titer of over 20 g 
liter-1 through whole-cell bioconversion using recombinant Escherichia coli 
cells. As β-hydroxy-α-amino acids are important compounds for pharmaceutical 
development, this achievement would facilitate future sustainable and economical 
industrial applications.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01335-21
PMCID: PMC8478450
PMID: 34347519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1732. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Nov;74(1):24-31. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.04.020. Epub 
2010 May 11.

Overexpression and purification of PWL2D, a mutant of the effector protein PWL2 
from Magnaporthe grisea.

Schneider DR(1), Saraiva AM, Azzoni AR, Miranda HR, de Toledo MA, Pelloso AC, 
Souza AP.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biologia Molecular e Engenharia Genética (CBMEG), Universidade 
Estadual de Campinas, CP 6010, CEP 13083-970 Campinas, SP, Brazil.

The rice blast disease caused by the ascomycete Magnaporthe grisea continues to 
cause a tremendous impact in rice (Oryza sativa) cultures around the world. 
Elucidating the molecular basis of the fungus interactions with its host might 
help increase the general understanding of the pathogen-host relationship. At 
the moment of invasion, the fungus secretes effectors that modify host defenses 
and cellular processes as they successively invade living rice cells. PWL2, an 
effector protein, is a known AVR (avirulence) gene product. The PWL2 gene 
prevents the fungus from infecting weeping lovegrass (Eragrostis curvula). In 
this study, we identified a PWL2 allele gene (which we termed PWL2D) in a strain 
of M. grisea. The sequence of PWL2D has only two bases different from that of 
PWL2, producing alterations in residue 90 and residue 142. However, the 
alteration of residue 90 (from D(90) to N(90)) is critical to gene function. 
Here, we cloned the gene PWL2D in a pET System vector, expressed the gene 
product in Escherichia coli and evaluated by spectroscopic techniques some 
aspects of the PWL2D structure. While TRX-tagged PWL2D is prone to aggregation, 
the solubility of PWL2D is improved when it is overexpressed without its 
original signal peptide. Expression and purification procedures for these 
constructs are described. Finally, we found out that the protein seems to be an 
intrinsically disordered protein. Results from these studies will facilitate 
structural analysis of PWL2D and might contribute to understanding the gene's 
function and of fungal/plant interactions.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.04.020
PMID: 20438845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1733. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2019 Jan;116(1):5-18. doi: 10.1002/bit.26841. Epub 2018 Oct 
27.

Synthetic repetitive extragenic palindromic (REP) sequence as an efficient mRNA 
stabilizer for protein production and metabolic engineering in prokaryotic 
cells.

Deng C(1)(2), Lv X(1)(2), Li J(2), Liu Y(1)(2), Du G(1), Amaro RL(3), Liu 
L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of 
Education, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, China.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, UK.

In prokaryotic cells, 3'-5' exonucleases can attenuate messenger RNA (mRNA) 
directionally from the direction of the 3'-5' untranslated region (UTR), and 
thus improving the stability of mRNAs without influencing normal cell growth and 
metabolism is a key challenge for protein production and metabolic engineering. 
Herein, we significantly improved mRNA stability by using synthetic repetitive 
extragenic palindromic (REP) sequences as an effective mRNA stabilizer in two 
typical prokaryotic microbes, namely, Escherichia coli for the production of 
cyclodextrin glucosyltransferase (CGTase) and Corynebacterium glutamicum for the 
production of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc). First, we performed a 
high-throughput screen to select 4 out of 380 REP sequences generated by 
randomizing 6 nonconservative bases in the REP sequence designed as the 
degenerate base "N." Secondly, the REP sequence was inserted at several 
different positions after the stop codon of the CGTase-encoding gene. We found 
that mRNA stability was improved only when the space between the REP sequence 
and stop codon was longer than 12 base pairs (bp). Then, by reconstructing the 
spacer sequence and secondary structure of the REP sequence, a REP sequence with 
8 bp in a stem-loop was obtained, and the CGTase activity increased from 210.6 
to 291.5 U/ml. Furthermore, when this REP sequence was added to the 3'-UTR of 
glucosamine-6-phosphate N-acetyltransferase 1 ( GNA1), which is a gene encoding 
a key enzyme GNA1 in the GlcNAc synthesis pathway, the GNA1 activity was 
increased from 524.8 to 890.7 U/mg, and the GlcNAc titer was increased from 4.1 
to 6.0 g/L in C. glutamicum. These findings suggest that the REP sequence plays 
an important function as an mRNA stabilizer in prokaryotic cells to stabilize 
its 3'-terminus of the mRNA by blocking the processing action of the 3'-5' 
exonuclease. Overall, this study provides new insight for the high-efficiency 
overexpression of target genes and pathway fine-tuning in bacteria.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.26841
PMID: 30229865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1734. Biochemistry. 2005 Sep 13;44(36):12188-95. doi: 10.1021/bi050300z.

Enhanced inhibition of polymerization of sickle cell hemoglobin in the presence 
of recombinant mutants of human fetal hemoglobin with substitutions at position 
43 in the gamma-chain.

Tam MF(1), Chen J, Tam TC, Tsai CH, Shen TJ, Simplaceanu V, Feinstein TN, 
Barrick D, Ho C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.

Four recombinant mutants of human fetal hemoglobin [Hb F (alpha2gamma2)] with 
amino acid substitutions at the position 43 of the gamma-chain, rHb (gammaD43L), 
rHb (gammaD43E), rHb (gammaD43W), and rHb (gammaD43R), have been expressed in 
our Escherichia coli expression system and used to investigate their inhibitory 
effect on the polymerization of deoxygenated sickle cell hemoglobin (Hb S). 
Oxygen-binding studies show that rHb (gammaD43E), rHb (gammaD43W), and rHb 
(gammaD43R) exhibit higher oxygen affinity than human normal adult hemoglobin 
(Hb A), Hb F, or rHb (gammaD43L), and all four rHbs are cooperative in binding 
O2. Proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies of these four rHbs indicate 
that the quaternary and tertiary structures around the heme pockets are similar 
to those of Hb F in both deoxy (T) and liganded (R) states. Solution 
light-scattering experiments indicate that these mutants remain mostly 
tetrameric in the liganded (R) state. In equimolar mixtures of Hb S and each of 
the four rHb mutants (gammaD43L, gammaD43E, gammaD43R, and gammaD43W), the 
solubility (Csat) of each of the pairs of Hbs is higher than that of a similar 
mixture of Hb S and Hb A, as measured by dextran-Csat experiments. Furthermore, 
the Csat values for Hb S/rHb (gammaD43L), Hb S/rHb (gammaD43E), and Hb S/rHb 
(gammaD43R) mixtures are substantially higher than that for Hb S/Hb F. The 
results suggest that these three mutants of Hb F are more effective than Hb F in 
inhibiting the polymerization of deoxy-Hb S in equimolar mixtures.

DOI: 10.1021/bi050300z
PMID: 16142917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1735. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2017 May 30;8:115. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2017.00115. 
eCollection 2017.

Exploiting Nanobodies in the Detection and Quantification of Human Growth 
Hormone via Phage-Sandwich Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay.

Murad H(1), Assaad JM(1), Al-Shemali R(1), Abbady AQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, AECS, Damascus, Syria.

BACKGROUND: Monitoring blood levels of human growth hormone (hGH) in most 
children with short stature deficiencies is crucial for taking a decision of 
treatment with extended course of daily and expensive doses of recombinant hGH 
(rhGH or Somatropin®). Besides, misusing of rhGH by sportsmen is banned by the 
World Anti-Doping Agency and thus sensitive GH-detecting methods are highly 
welcome in this field. Nanobodies are the tiniest antigen-binding entity derived 
from camel heavy chain antibodies. They were successfully generated against 
numerous antigens including hormones.
METHODS: A fully nanobody-based sandwich ELISA method was developed in this work 
for direct measurement of GH in biological samples.
RESULTS: Two major characteristics of nanobody were exploited for this goal: the 
robust and stable structure of the nanobody (NbGH04) used to capture hGH from 
tested samples, and the great ability of tailoring, enabling the display of the 
anti-GH detector nanobody (NbGH07) on the tip of M13-phage. Such huge, stable, 
and easy-to-prepare phage-Nb was used in ELISA to provide an amplified signal. 
Previously, NbGH04 was retrieved on immobilized hGH by phage display from a wide 
"immune" cDNA library prepared from a hGH-immunized camel. Here, and in order to 
assure epitope heterogeneity, NbGH07 was isolated from the same library using 
NbGH04-captured hGH as bait. Interaction of both nanobodies with hGH was 
characterized and compared with different anti-GH nanobodies and antibodies. The 
sensitivity (~0.5 ng/ml) and stability of the nanobody-base sandwich ELISA were 
assessed using rhGH before testing in the quantification of hGH in blood sera 
and cell culture supernatants.
CONCLUSION: In regard to all advantages of nanobodies; stability, solubility, 
production affordability in Escherichia coli, and gene tailoring, nanobody-based 
phage sandwich ELISA developed here would provide a valuable method for hGH 
detection and quantification.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2017.00115
PMCID: PMC5447680
PMID: 28611730


1736. Int J Mol Sci. 2019 Sep 11;20(18):4499. doi: 10.3390/ijms20184499.

Molecular Cloning and Functional Identification of a Squalene Synthase Encoding 
Gene from Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.).

Kang J(1), Zhang Q(2), Jiang X(3), Zhang T(4), Long R(5), Yang Q(6), Wang Z(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. kangjunmei@caas.cn.
(2)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. zhqynancy@126.com.
(3)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. jiangxu2009@yeah.net.
(4)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. tiejunzhang@126.com.
(5)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. dragongodsgod@163.com.
(6)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. qchyang66@163.com.
(7)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. wangzhen@caas.cn.

The quality of alfalfa, a main forage legume worldwide, is of great importance 
for the dairy industry and is affected by the content of triterpene saponins. 
These natural terpenoid products of triterpene aglycones are catalyzed by 
squalene synthase (SQS), a highly conserved enzyme present in eukaryotes. 
However, there is scare information on alfalfa SQS. Here, an open reading frame 
(ORF) of SQS was cloned from alfalfa. Sequence analysis showed MsSQS had the 
same exon/intron composition and shared high homology with its orthologs. 
Bioinformatic analysis revealed the deduced MsSQS had two transmembrane domains. 
When transiently expressed, GFP-MsSQS fusion protein was localized on the plasma 
membrane of onion epidermal cells. Removal of the C-terminal transmembrane 
domain of MsSQS improved solubility in Escherichia coli. MsSQS was preferably 
expressed in roots, followed by leaves and stems. MeJA treatment induced MsSQS 
expression and increased the content of total saponins. Overexpression of MsSQS 
in alfalfa led to the accumulation of total saponins, suggesting a correlation 
between MsSQS expression level with saponins content. Therefore, MsSQS is a 
canonical squalene synthase and contributes to saponin synthesis in alfalfa. 
This study provides a key candidate gene for genetic manipulation of the 
synthesis of triterpene saponins, which impact both plant and animal health.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms20184499
PMCID: PMC6770234
PMID: 31514406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1737. Protein Expr Purif. 2014 Mar;95:77-83. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.11.011. Epub 2013 
Dec 8.

Expression, purification and improved antigenicity of the Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis PstS1 antigen for serodiagnosis.

Hwang WH(1), Lee WK(2), Ryoo SW(3), Yoo KY(1), Tae GS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Dankook University, Dandae-ro 119, 
Dongnam-gu, Cheonan-si, Chungnam 330-714, Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Molecular Recognition and Nano Technology, Kookmin University, 
861-2, Jeongneung-dong, Songbuk-gu, Seoul 136-702, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Research and Development, Korea Institute of Tuberculosis, 482, 
Mansuri, Osong, Cheongwon-gun, Chungbuk 363-954, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Dankook University, Dandae-ro 119, 
Dongnam-gu, Cheonan-si, Chungnam 330-714, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
gtae@dankook.ac.kr.

The phosphate-specific transport substrate binding protein-1 (PstS1) is a 
potential antigen used for the serological diagnosis of tuberculosis. For a 
highly specific diagnostic result, it is important that the recombinant PstS1 be 
highly pure and correctly folded. In this study, the PstS1 was expressed as 
fusion protein with glutathione-S-transferase (PstS1-GST) and Escherichia coli 
trigger factor (PstS1-TF) and their immunodiagnostic potentials were evaluated. 
The insoluble PstS1-GST was denatured and refolded to the native conformation by 
a step-gradient dilution, followed by purification with affinity chromatography 
on immobilized glutathione whereas the soluble PstS1-TF was directly purified by 
Ni-NTA affinity and size-exclusion chromatographies. The levels of antibody 
responses to PstS1-TF and PstS1-GST were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA) in the sera of 22 tuberculosis patients with smear-positive and 
culture-positive tuberculosis as well as 20 healthy individuals; the 
antigenicities of the samples were evaluated in terms of sensitivity and 
specificity. To determine the diagnostic accuracy, receiver operation 
characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed and then the areas under the ROC 
curves (AUC) were calculated; the AUC values for PstS1-TF and PstS1-GST were 
0.971 and 0.877 with 95% confidence intervals (CI) of 0.927-1.000 and 
0.768-0.986, respectively. The specificity of PstS1-TF was reduced from 89.5% to 
84.2%, but in case of PstS1-GST it dropped drastically from 78.9% to 26.3% when 
the sensitivity was raised from 86.4% up to 95.5%. These results indicate that 
PstS1-TF is capable of producing more accurate and consistent serodiagnostic 
results than PstS1-GST, possibly due to its conformation being closer to the 
native state.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2013.11.011
PMID: 24326191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1738. Protein Expr Purif. 2007 Sep;55(1):93-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.04.005. Epub 
2007 Apr 14.

Optimized expression from a synthetic gene of an untagged RNase H domain of 
human hepatitis B virus polymerase which is enzymatically active.

Potenza N(1), Salvatore V, Raimondo D, Falanga D, Nobile V, Peterson DL, Russo 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Second University of Naples, Via Vivaldi 43, 
81100 Caserta, Italy.

The RNase H domain of human hepatitis B virus (HBV) polymerase is an attractive 
molecular target for the development of new anti-HBV drugs. In this study, a 
synthetic gene coding for HBV RNase H was assembled from 12 oligonucleotides and 
expressed in Escherichia coli. The encoded protein was then recovered from 
inclusion bodies, purified, and refolded by a dilution-dialysis procedure in the 
presence of a low concentration of lauroylsarcosine (0.01%). The presence of the 
detergent was an absolute requirement for solubility, suggesting that the 
untagged RNase H might have exposed hydrophobic regions that need to be shielded 
from the solvent. The structural identity of the protein was confirmed by 
N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis and mass spectrometry. The enzymatic 
activity of HBV RNase H was then tested by a recently developed fluorometric 
assay and was found to be only slightly lower than that registered with the 
entire HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. Finally, a structural model of the enzyme 
showed that H715, R744 and K745 may be involved in substrate recognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2007.04.005
PMID: 17507239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1739. AMB Express. 2017 Dec;7(1):122. doi: 10.1186/s13568-017-0420-3. Epub 2017 Jun 9.

Toward a cell-free hydantoinase process: screening for expression optimization 
and one-step purification as well as immobilization of hydantoinase and 
carbamoylase.

Slomka C(1), Späth GP(2), Lemke P(2), Skoupi M(3), Niemeyer CM(3), Syldatk C(2), 
Rudat J(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Process Engineering in Life Sciences, Section II: Technical 
Biology, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Engler-Bunte-Ring 3, 76131, 
Karlsruhe, Germany. christin.slomka@kit.edu.
(2)Institute of Process Engineering in Life Sciences, Section II: Technical 
Biology, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Engler-Bunte-Ring 3, 76131, 
Karlsruhe, Germany.
(3)Institute of Biological Interfaces (IBG-1), Karlsruhe Institute of Technology 
(KIT), Hermann-von-Helmholtz-Platz 1, 76344, Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen, Germany.

The hydantoinase process is applied for the industrial synthesis of optically 
pure amino acids via whole cell biocatalysis, providing a simple and 
well-established method to obtain the catalyst. Nevertheless, whole cell 
approaches also bear disadvantages like intracellular degradation reactions, 
transport limitations as well as low substrate solubility. In this work the 
hydantoinase and carbamoylase from Arthrobacter crystallopoietes DSM 20117 were 
investigated with respect to their applicability in a cell-free hydantoinase 
process. Both enzymes were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli BL21DE3. 
Cultivation and induction of the hydantoinase under oxygen deficiency resulted 
in markedly higher specific activities and a further increase in expression was 
achieved by codon-optimization. Further expression conditions of the 
hydantoinase were tested using the microbioreactor system BioLector®, which 
showed a positive effect upon the addition of 3% ethanol to the cultivation 
medium. Additionally, the hydantoinase and carbamoylase were successfully 
purified by immobilized metal ion affinity using Ni Sepharose beads as well as 
by functionalized magnetic beads, while the latter method was clearly more 
effective with respect to recovery and purification factor. Immobilization of 
both enzymes via functionalized magnetic beads directly from the crude cell 
extract was successful and resulted in specific activities that turned out to be 
much higher than those of the purified free enzymes.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-017-0420-3
PMCID: PMC5466576
PMID: 28605882


1740. Hum Mutat. 2012 Jul;33(7):1107-15. doi: 10.1002/humu.22093. Epub 2012 Apr 30.

Correlation assessment among clinical phenotypes, expression analysis and 
molecular modeling of 14 novel variations in the human galactose-1-phosphate 
uridylyltransferase gene.

Tang M(1), Facchiano A, Rachamadugu R, Calderon F, Mao R, Milanesi L, Marabotti 
A, Lai K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GALT) catalyzes the conversion of 
galactose-1-phosphate to UDP-galactose, a key step in the galactose metabolism. 
Deficiency of GALT activity in humans caused by deleterious variations in the 
GALT gene can cause a potentially lethal disease called classic galactosemia. In 
this study, we selected 14 novel nucleotide sequence changes in the GALT genes 
found in galactosemic patients for expression analysis and molecular modeling. 
Several variants showed decreased levels of expression and decreased abundance 
in the soluble fraction of the Escherichia coli cell extracts, suggesting 
altered stability and solubility. Only six variant GALT enzymes had detectable 
enzymatic activities. Kinetic studies showed that their V(max) decreased 
significantly. To further characterize the variants at molecular level, we 
performed static and dynamic molecular modeling studies. Effects of variations 
on local and/or global structural features of the enzyme were anticipated for 
the majority of variants. In-depth studies with molecular dynamic simulations on 
selected variants predicted the alteration of the protein structure even though 
static models apparently did not highlight any perturbation. Overall, these 
studies offered new insights on the molecular properties of GALT enzyme, with 
the aim of correlating them with the clinical outcome. Hum Mutat 33:1107-1115, 
2012. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22093
PMCID: PMC3431212
PMID: 22461411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1741. Biopolymers. 2002 Jul 5;64(2):106-14. doi: 10.1002/bip.10153.

A metal binding in the polypeptide chain improves the folding efficiency of a 
denatured and reduced protein.

Ohkuri T(1), Ueda T, Yoshida Y, Abe Y, Hamasaki N, Imoto T.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 
812-8582, Japan.

In order to examine the effect of a metal binding to the polypeptide chain on 
the aggregation of a protein in the refolding process, we prepared a mutant hen 
lysozyme possessing the same Ca(2+) binding site as in human alpha-lactalbumin 
by Escherichia coli expression system (Ser(-1) CaB lysozyme). In the presence of 
2 mM CaCl(2), the refolding yield of Ser(-1) CaB lysozyme at a low protein 
concentration (25 microg/mL) was similar to that of the wild-type lysozyme 
(80%), but that at high protein concentration (200 microg/mL) decreased (15%) 
due to aggregation comparing to that of the wild-type lysozyme (45%). However, 
the refolding yield of Ser(-1) CaB lysozyme in the presence of 100 mM CaCl(2) 
even at a protein concentration of 200 microg/mL was 80% and was higher than 
that of the wild-type lysozyme. From analysis of chemical shift changes of the 
cross peaks in the backbone region of total correlated spectroscopy (TOCSY) 
spectra of a decapeptide possessing the same calcium binding site as in Ser(-1) 
CaB lysozyme in the presence of various concentrations of Ca(2+), it was 
suggested that the dissociation constant of Ca(2+)-peptide complex was estimated 
to be 20-36 mM. Moreover, the solubility of the denatured Ser(-1) CaB lysozyme 
in the presence of 100 mM CaCl(2) was higher than that in the presence of 2 mM 
CaCl(2) whereas the solubility of the denatured Ser(-1) lysozyme in the presence 
of 100 mM CaCl(2) was not higher than that in the presence of 2 mM CaCl(2). 
Therefore, it was concluded that the reduced lysozyme possessing the Ca(2+) 
binding site was efficiently folded in the presence of high concentration of 
Ca(2+) (100 mM) even at high protein concentration due to depression of 
aggregation by the binding of Ca(2+) to the polypeptide chain in Ser(-1) CaB 
lysozyme.

Copyright 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bip.10153
PMID: 11979521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1742. mBio. 2015 Dec 15;6(6):e01947-15. doi: 10.1128/mBio.01947-15.

Impact of Anaerobiosis on Expression of the Iron-Responsive Fur and RyhB 
Regulons.

Beauchene NA(1), Myers KS(1), Chung D(2), Park DM(1), Weisnicht AM(1), Keleş 
S(2), Kiley PJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Departments of Statistics and Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Biomolecular Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA pjkiley@wisc.edu.

Iron, a major protein cofactor, is essential for most organisms. Despite the 
well-known effects of O2 on the oxidation state and solubility of iron, the 
impact of O2 on cellular iron homeostasis is not well understood. Here we report 
that in Escherichia coli K-12, the lack of O2 dramatically changes expression of 
genes controlled by the global regulators of iron homeostasis, the transcription 
factor Fur and the small RNA RyhB. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation 
sequencing (ChIP-seq), we found anaerobic conditions promote Fur binding to more 
locations across the genome. However, by expression profiling, we discovered 
that the major effect of anaerobiosis was to increase the magnitude of Fur 
regulation, leading to increased expression of iron storage proteins and 
decreased expression of most iron uptake pathways and several Mn-binding 
proteins. This change in the pattern of gene expression also correlated with an 
unanticipated decrease in Mn in anaerobic cells. Changes in the genes 
posttranscriptionally regulated by RyhB under aerobic and anaerobic conditions 
could be attributed to O2-dependent changes in transcription of the target 
genes: aerobic RyhB targets were enriched in iron-containing proteins associated 
with aerobic energy metabolism, whereas anaerobic RyhB targets were enriched in 
iron-containing anaerobic respiratory functions. Overall, these studies showed 
that anaerobiosis has a larger impact on iron homeostasis than previously 
anticipated, both by expanding the number of direct Fur target genes and the 
magnitude of their regulation and by altering the expression of genes predicted 
to be posttranscriptionally regulated by the small RNA RyhB under iron-limiting 
conditions.
IMPORTANCE: Microbes and host cells engage in an "arms race" for iron, an 
essential nutrient that is often scarce in the environment. Studies of iron 
homeostasis have been key to understanding the control of iron acquisition and 
the downstream pathways that enable microbes to compete for this valuable 
resource. Here we report that O2 availability affects the gene expression 
programs of two Escherichia coli master regulators that function in iron 
homeostasis: the transcription factor Fur and the small RNA regulator RyhB. Fur 
appeared to be more active under anaerobic conditions, suggesting a change in 
the set point for iron homeostasis. RyhB preferentially targeted iron-containing 
proteins of respiration-linked pathways, which are differentially expressed 
under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Such findings may be relevant to the 
success of bacteria within their hosts since zones of reduced O2 may actually 
reduce bacterial iron demands, making it easier to win the arms race for iron.

Copyright © 2015 Beauchene et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.01947-15
PMCID: PMC4676285
PMID: 26670385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1743. J Virol. 2003 Jun;77(11):6450-65. doi: 10.1128/jvi.77.11.6450-6465.2003.

Development and application of a reverse genetics system for Japanese 
encephalitis virus.

Yun SI(1), Kim SY, Rice CM, Lee YM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Microbiology, College of Medicine and 
Medical Research Institute, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, Korea.

Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is a common agent of viral encephalitis that 
causes high mortality and morbidity among children. Molecular genetic studies of 
JEV are hampered by the lack of a genetically stable full-length infectious JEV 
cDNA clone. We describe here the development of such a clone. A JEV isolate was 
fully sequenced, and then its full-length cDNA was cloned into a bacterial 
artificial chromosome. This was then further engineered so that transcription of 
the cDNA in vitro would generate synthetic RNAs with authentic 5' and 3' ends. 
The synthetic RNAs thus produced were highly infectious in susceptible cells 
(>10(6) PFU/ micro g), and these cells rapidly generated a high titer of 
synthetic viruses (>5 x 10(6) PFU/ml). The recovered viruses were 
indistinguishable from the parental virus in terms of plaque morphology, growth 
kinetics, RNA accumulation, protein expression, and cytopathogenicity. 
Significantly, the structural and functional integrity of the cDNA was 
maintained even after 180 generations of growth in Escherichia coli. A single 
point mutation acting as a genetic marker was introduced into the cDNA and was 
found in the genome of the recovered virus, indicating that the cDNA can be 
manipulated. Furthermore, we showed that JEV is an attractive vector for the 
expression of heterologous genes in a wide variety of cell types. This novel 
reverse genetics system for JEV will greatly facilitate research into JEV 
biology. It will also be useful as a heterologous gene expression vector and 
will aid the development of a vaccine against JEV.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.77.11.6450-6465.2003
PMCID: PMC154991
PMID: 12743302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1744. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Mar 1;41(5):e59. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks1342. Epub 2012 Dec 
28.

Nanobody(R)-based chromatin immunoprecipitation/micro-array analysis for 
genome-wide identification of transcription factor DNA binding sites.

Nguyen-Duc T(1), Peeters E, Muyldermans S, Charlier D, Hassanzadeh-Ghassabeh G.

Author information:
(1)Research group of Cellular and Molecular Immunology, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, B-1050 Brussel, Belgium.

Nanobodies® are single-domain antibody fragments derived from camelid 
heavy-chain antibodies. Because of their small size, straightforward production 
in Escherichia coli, easy tailoring, high affinity, specificity, stability and 
solubility, nanobodies® have been exploited in various biotechnological 
applications. A major challenge in the post-genomics and post-proteomics era is 
the identification of regulatory networks involving nucleic acid-protein and 
protein-protein interactions. Here, we apply a nanobody® in chromatin 
immunoprecipitation followed by DNA microarray hybridization (ChIP-chip) for 
genome-wide identification of DNA-protein interactions. The Lrp-like regulator 
Ss-LrpB, arguably one of the best-studied specific transcription factors of the 
hyperthermophilic archaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus, was chosen for this 
proof-of-principle nanobody®-assisted ChIP. Three distinct Ss-LrpB-specific 
nanobodies®, each interacting with a different epitope, were generated for ChIP. 
Genome-wide ChIP-chip with one of these nanobodies® identified the 
well-established Ss-LrpB binding sites and revealed several unknown target 
sequences. Furthermore, these ChIP-chip profiles revealed auxiliary operator 
sites in the open reading frame of Ss-lrpB. Our work introduces nanobodies® as a 
novel class of affinity reagents for ChIP. Taking into account the unique 
characteristics of nanobodies®, in particular, their short generation time, 
nanobody®-based ChIP is expected to further streamline ChIP-chip and ChIP-Seq 
experiments, especially in organisms with no (or limited) possibility of genetic 
manipulation.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks1342
PMCID: PMC3597646
PMID: 23275538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1745. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Feb 28;24(2):254-63. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1304.04036.

Gene cloning and characterization of an α-amylase from Alteromonas macleodii B7 
for Enteromorpha polysaccharide degradation.

Han X(1), Lin B, Ru G, Zhang Z, Liu Y, Hu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Shantou University, Shantou, Guangdong 515063, China.

Enteromorpha polysaccharides (EP) extracted from green algae have displayed a 
wide variety of biological activities. However, their high molecular weight 
leads to a high viscosity and low solubility, and therefore, greatly restrains 
their application. To solve this problem, bacteria from the surface of 
Enteromorpha were screened, and an Alteromonas macleodii strain B7 was found to 
be able to decrease the molecular weight of EP in culture media. Proteins 
harvested from the supernatant of the A. macleodii B7 culture were subjected to 
native gel electrophoresis, and a band corresponding to the Enteromorpha 
polysaccharide lyase (EPL) was detected by activity staining. The enzyme 
identity was subsequently confirmed by MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry as the 
putative α-amylase reported in A. macleodii ATCC 27126. The amylase gene 
(amySTU) from A. macleodii B7 was cloned into Escherichia coli, resulting in 
highlevel expression of the recombinant enzyme with EP-degrading activity. 
AmySTU was found to be cold-adapted; however, its optimal enzyme activity was 
detected at 40°C. The α-amylase was highly stable over a broad pH range (5.5-10) 
with the optimal pH at 7.5-8.0. The highest enzyme activity was detected when 
NaCl concentration was 2%, which dropped by 50% when the NaCl concentration was 
increased to 16%, showing an excellent nature of halotolerance. Furthermore, the 
amylase activity was not significantly affected by tested surfactants or the 
presence of some organic solvents. Therefore, the A. macleodii strain B7 and its 
α-amylase can be useful in lowering EP molecular weight and in starch 
processing.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1304.04036
PMID: 24262656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1746. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Jul 3;462(3):269-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.04.130. Epub 2015 May 6.

Immunogenicity characterization of the multi-epitope vaccine CTB-UE with 
chitosan-CpG as combination adjuvants against Helicobacter pylori.

Xing Y(1), Liu W(1), Li X(1), Guo L(2), Lv X(1), Xi T(3).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Center, School of Life Science and Technology, China 
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(2)School of Laboratory Medicine, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, China.
(3)Biotechnology Center, School of Life Science and Technology, China 
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China. Electronic address: 
xitao18@hotmail.com.

Urease is considered as an excellent vaccine candidate antigen against 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Our previous study reported a novel 
multi-epitope vaccine CTB-UE which was composed of the mucosal adjuvant cholera 
toxin B subunit (CTB) and five cell epitopes from urease subunits. Murine 
experiments indicated that it could induce cellular and humoral immune responses 
intensively and attenuate H. pylori infection effectively in mice model. 
However, the body expression and lack of suitable adjuvant of this epitope 
vaccine restricted its application. In this study, new recombinant Escherichia 
coli strains was established to increase the solubility by fusing thioredoxin 
(Trx) and the combination adjuvants which composed of the chitosan and CpG were 
adopted to enhance the immunogenicity of CTB-UE for oral immunization. The 
experimental results indicated that the levels of IgG2a, IgG1 and IgA in the 
serum and the levels of sIgA in stomach, intestine and feces were significantly 
higher in the vaccinated group compared with the model control group. 
Additionally, chitosan-CpG combination adjuvants changed the ratio of IgG2a/IgG1 
and conferred Th1/Th17-mediated protective immune responses. These results 
demonstrate that the oral vaccine with chitosan-CpG as combination adjuvants may 
be a promising vaccine candidate against H. pylori infection.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.04.130
PMID: 25957472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1747. J Inorg Biochem. 2000 Apr;79(1-4):103-8. doi: 10.1016/s0162-0134(99)00236-6.

Direct micellar systems as a tool to improve the efficiency of aromatic 
substrate conversion for fine chemicals production.

Berti D(1), Randazzo D, Briganti F, Baglioni P, Scozzafava A, Di Gennaro P, 
Galli E, Bestetti G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica, Università di Firenze and CSGI, Florence, Italy.

Whole-cell bioconversion of naphthalene to 
(+)-cis-(1R,2S)-dihydroxy-1,2-dihydronaphthalene by Escherichia coli 
JM109(pPS1778) recombinant strain, carrying naphthalene dioxygenase and 
regulatory genes cloned from Pseudomonas fluorescens N3, in direct micellar 
systems is optimized as an example of fine chemicals bioproduction from scarcely 
water-soluble substrates. The oxygen insertion into the aromatic substrate, 
which stops at the enantiomerically pure cis dihydroxylated product, is 
performed in direct microemulsion systems, where a non-ionic surfactant 
stabilizes naphthalene containing oil droplets in an aqueous medium. These media 
provide an increased substrate solubility so that a homogeneous reaction can be 
carried out, while not affecting bacteria viability and performances. The 
influence of the chemical nature of the oil is investigated. The phase behavior 
of the direct microemulsion system was monitored for three different oils as a 
function their volume fraction and characterized through light scattering. The 
addition of isopropyl palmitate, oleic acid, or glyceryl trioleate, 0.6-1.2% v/v 
to the micellar systems, led to an increase of the substrate concentration in 
the solution and particularly its bioavailability, allowing faster catalytic 
conversions. All these systems resulted in being suitable for catalytic 
conversions of aromatic compounds. Although the nature of the oil does have a 
deep effect on the phase behavior of the micellar systems, in the present 
investigation no differences in the yields and in the rates of product formation 
of the enzymatic system were observed on changing the oil, thus showing that in 
this case the substrate concentration or bioavailability is not the 
rate-limiting step.

DOI: 10.1016/s0162-0134(99)00236-6
PMID: 10830854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1748. Vaccine. 2018 May 17;36(21):3054-3060. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.03.064. Epub 
2018 Apr 11.

An improved conjugate vaccine technology; induction of antibody responses to the 
tumor vasculature.

Huijbers EJM(1), van Beijnum JR(1), Lê CT(1), Langman S(1), Nowak-Sliwinska 
P(2), Mayo KH(3), Griffioen AW(4).

Author information:
(1)Angiogenesis Laboratory, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Oncology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology & Biophysics, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Angiogenesis Laboratory, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Oncology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: aw.griffioen@vumc.nl.

Erratum in
    Vaccine. 2019 Jul 9;37(30):4231-4232.

The induction of an antibody response against self-antigens requires a conjugate 
vaccine technology, where the self-antigen is conjugated to a foreign protein 
sequence, and the co-application of a potent adjuvant. The choice of this 
foreign sequence is crucial as a very strong antibody response towards it may 
compromise the anti-self immune response. Here, we aimed to optimize the 
conjugate design for application of vaccination against the tumor vasculature, 
using two different approaches. First, the immunogenicity of the previously 
employed bacterial thioredoxin (TRX) was reduced by using a truncated from 
(TRXtr). Second, the Escherichia coli proteome was scrutinized to identify 
alternative proteins, based on immunogenicity and potency to increase 
solubility, suitable for use in a conjugate vaccine. This technology was used 
for vaccination against a marker of the tumor vasculature, the well-known extra 
domain B (EDB) of fibronectin. We demonstrate that engineering of the foreign 
sequence of a conjugate vaccine can significantly improve antibody production. 
The TRXtr construct outperformed the one containing full-length TRX, for the 
production of anti-self antibodies to EDB. In addition, efficient tumor growth 
inhibition was observed with the new TRXtr-EDB vaccine. Microvessel density was 
decreased and enhanced leukocyte infiltration was observed, indicative of an 
active immune response directed against the tumor vasculature. Summarizing, we 
have identified a truncated form of the foreign antigen TRX that can improve 
conjugate vaccine technology for induction of anti-self antibody titers. This 
technology was named Immuno-Boost (I-Boost). Our findings are important for the 
clinical development of cancer vaccines directed against self antigens, e.g. the 
ones selectively found in the tumor vasculature.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.03.064
PMID: 29655625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1749. Biochim Biophys Acta Biomembr. 2020 May 1;1862(5):183191. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamem.2020.183191. Epub 2020 Jan 15.

Solution structure and oligomeric state of the E. coliglycerol facilitator.

Hernando M(1), Orriss G(1), Perodeau J(2), Lei S(1), Ferens FG(3), Patel TR(4), 
Stetefeld J(1), Nieuwkoop AJ(2), O'Neil JD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Rutgers School of Arts and 
Sciences, 123 Bevier Rd., Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, 
Canada.
(4)Alberta RNA Research & Training Institute, Department of Chemistry & 
Biochemistry, Lethbridge University, 4401 University Drive, Lethbridge, Alberta 
T1K 3M4, Canada.
(5)Department of Chemistry, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, 
Canada. Electronic address: joe.oneil@umanitoba.ca.

Protein dynamics at atomic resolution can provide deep insights into the 
biological activities of proteins and enzymes but they can also make structure 
and dynamics studies challenging. Despite their well-known biological and 
pharmaceutical importance, integral membrane protein structure and dynamics 
studies lag behind those of water-soluble proteins mainly owing to solubility 
problems that result upon their removal from the membrane. Escherichia coli 
glycerol facilitator (GF) is a member of the aquaglyceroporin family that allows 
for the highly selective passive diffusion of its substrate glycerol across the 
inner membrane of the bacterium. Previous molecular dynamics simulations and 
hydrogen-deuterium exchange studies suggested that protein dynamics play an 
important role in the passage of glycerol through the protein pore. With the aim 
of studying GF dynamics by solution and solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance 
(NMR) spectroscopy we optimized the expression of isotope-labelled GF and 
explored various solubilizing agents including detergents, osmolytes, amphipols, 
random heteropolymers, lipid nanodiscs, bicelles and other buffer additives to 
optimize the solubility and polydispersity of the protein. The GF protein is 
most stable and soluble in lauryl maltose neopentyl glycol (LMNG), where it 
exists in a tetramer-octamer equilibrium. The solution structures of the GF 
tetramer and octamer were determined by negative-stain transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM), size-exclusion chromatography small-angle X-ray scattering 
(SEC-SAXS) and solid-state magic-angle spinning NMR spectroscopy. Although NMR 
sample preparation still needs optimization for full structure and dynamics 
studies, negative stain TEM and SEC-SAXS revealed low-resolution structures of 
the detergent-solubilized tetramer and octamer particles. The non-native octamer 
appears to form from the association of the cytoplasmic faces of two tetramers, 
the interaction apparently mediated by their disordered N- and C-termini. This 
information may be useful in future studies directed at reducing the 
heterogeneity and self-association of the protein.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamem.2020.183191
PMID: 31953232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


1750. Vaccine. 2007 Dec 12;25(51):8574-84. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.09.074. Epub 
2007 Oct 26.

Construction and preclinical evaluation of recombinant Peru-15 expressing high 
levels of the cholera toxin B subunit as a vaccine against enterotoxigenic 
Escherichia coli.

Roland KL(1), Cloninger C, Kochi SK, Thomas LJ, Tinge SA, Rouskey C, Killeen KP.

Author information:
(1)AVANT Immunotherapeutics, Inc. 119 Fourth Avenue, Needham, MA 02494, United 
States.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is the leading cause of traveler's 
diarrhea. The heat-labile (LT) and heat-stable (ST) toxins mediate ETEC induced 
diarrhea. ETEC strains may express LT, ST, or both LT and ST, with LT-expressing 
strains accounting for approximately 50-60% of ETEC-related traveler's diarrhea. 
Cholera toxin (CT) is >80% homologous to LT and vaccination with CT-B subunit 
(CT-B) -based vaccines elicit a protective immune response against LT-producing 
ETEC strains. Peru-15 is an oral, single-dose, live-attenuated cholera vaccine 
candidate that has been investigated in several clinical trials (n>400 subjects) 
and was proven well tolerated, immunogenic, and efficacious. Peru-15 was 
genetically engineered to express and secrete high levels of CT-B by cloning 
ctxB onto a glnA balanced-lethal plasmid under the transcriptional control of a 
strong constitutive promoter, resulting in Peru-15pCTB. In vitro 
characterization demonstrated that Peru-15pCTB secreted approximately 30-fold 
more CT-B than Peru-15 and CT-B was stably produced after 40 generations of 
growth and throughout simulated Seed Bank and FDP (Final Drug Product) 
production conditions. In preclinical studies, the geometric mean anti-CT-B IgG 
titer in the sera of mice inoculated intranasally with two doses of Peru-15pCTB 
was >32-fold higher than in mice inoculated with Peru-15. Similarly, rabbits 
orally inoculated with a single dose of Peru-15pCTB developed titers that were 
approximately 30-fold higher than rabbits inoculated with a single dose of 
Peru-15. Sera from Peru-15pCTB vaccinated mice and rabbits neutralized LT 
toxicity in an in vitro assay. Peru-15pCTB has several promising characteristics 
of an oral, single-dose, bivalent cholera/ETEC vaccine and is advancing towards 
a Phase 1 clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.09.074
PMID: 18045752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1751. Protein Expr Purif. 2010 Jun;71(2):147-52. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.01.004. Epub 
2010 Jan 8.

Production and characterization of active hepatitis C virus RNA-dependent RNA 
polymerase.

Ryu K(1), Kim KH, Yoo SY, Lee EY, Lim KH, Min MK, Kim H, Choi SI, Seong BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Science and Biotechnology, 
Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

The non-structural protein 5B (NS5B) is an essential component for the genome 
replication of hepatitis C virus (HCV). Thus, its activity holds the potential 
of being a target for therapeutic actions against HCV. The availability of large 
amount of functionally active NS5B enzyme may facilitate the identification of 
NS5B inhibitors via high-throughput screening (HTS). Here, we expressed the 
C-terminal 20-amino acids truncated NS5B in a bacterial system using the 
N-terminal domain of Escherichia coli lysyl-tRNA synthetase (LysN) as a 
solubility enhancer. The fusion protein (LysN-NS5B) was purified in a yield of 
6.2mg/L. The activity of LysN-NS5B was confirmed by in vitro RNA-dependent RNA 
polymerase (RdRp) activity assay, and the biochemical properties of LysN-NS5B 
were further characterized by kinetic analysis. The optimal RdRp activity was 
shown at 30 degrees C with 5mM of Mg(2+) or 10mM of Mn(2+), while the K(m) value 
for UTP was determined as 5microM. The RdRp activity of LysN-NS5B was strongly 
inhibited by phenyldiketoacid, a specific inhibitor of HCV NS5B activity. Our 
results suggest that the LysN fusion system is a suitable approach for producing 
an active form of NS5B that can be used for HTS of NS5B inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2010.01.004
PMID: 20060472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1752. FEBS J. 2005 Jun;272(11):2878-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2005.04709.x.

Extended half-life upon binding of destabilized intrabodies allows specific 
detection of antigen in mammalian cells.

Sibler AP(1), Courtête J, Muller CD, Zeder-Lutz G, Weiss E.

Author information:
(1)UMR 700, Ecole Supérieure de Biotechnologie de Strasbourg, Illkirch, France.

The ectopic expression of antibody fragments inside mammalian cells 
(intrabodies) is a challenging approach for probing and modulating target 
activities. We previously described the shuttling activity of intracellularly 
expressed Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase conferred by the single-chain Fv 
(scFv) fragment 13R4 equipped with nuclear import/export signals. Here, by 
appending to scFvs the proteolytic PEST signal sequence (a protein region rich 
in proline, glutamic acid, serine and threonine) of mouse ornithine 
decarboxylase, we tested whether short-lived or destabilized intrabodies could 
affect the steady-state level of target by redirecting it to the proteasomes. In 
the absence of antigen, the half-life of the modified scFv 13R4, relative to 
untagged molecules, was considerably reduced in vivo. However, after 
coexpression with either cytoplasmic or nuclear antigen, the destabilized 13R4 
fragments were readily maintained in the cell and strictly colocalized with 
beta-galactosidase. Analysis of destabilized site-directed mutants, that were as 
soluble as 13R4 in the intracellular context, demonstrated that binding to 
antigen was essential for survival under these conditions. This unique property 
allowed specific detection of beta-galactosidase, even when expressed at low 
level in stably transformed cells, and permitted isolation by flow cytometry 
from a transfected cell mixture of those living cells specifically labeled with 
bound intrabody. Altogether, we show that PEST-tagged intrabodies of sufficient 
affinity and solubility are powerful tools for imaging the presence and likely 
the dynamics of protein antigens that are resistant to proteasomal degradation 
in animal cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2005.04709.x
PMID: 15943819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1753. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2012 Jul;25(7):357-66. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzs031. Epub 
2012 Jun 15.

Aggregation gatekeepers modulate protein homeostasis of aggregating sequences 
and affect bacterial fitness.

Beerten J(1), Jonckheere W, Rudyak S, Xu J, Wilkinson H, De Smet F, Schymkowitz 
J, Rousseau F.

Author information:
(1)Switch Laboratory, VIB, University of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

The most common mechanism by which proteins aggregate consists in the assembly 
of short hydrophobic primary sequence segments into extended β-structured 
agglomerates. A significant enrichment of charged residues is observed at the 
flank of these aggregation-prone sequence segments, suggesting selective 
pressure against aggregation. These so-called aggregation gatekeepers act by 
increasing the intrinsic solubility of aggregating sequences in vitro, but it 
has been suggested that they could also facilitate chaperone interactions. Here, 
we address whether aggregation gatekeepers affect bacterial fitness. In 
Escherichia coli MC4100 we overexpressed GFP fusions with an aggregation-prone 
segment of σ32 (further termed σ32β) flanked by gatekeeper and non-gatekeeper 
residues and measured pairwise competitive growth. We found that the identity of 
flanking residues had significant effect on bacterial growth. Overexpression of 
σ32β flanked by its natural gatekeepers displayed the greatest competitive 
fitness, followed by other combinations of gatekeepers, while absence of 
gatekeepers strongly affects bacterial fitness. Further analysis showed the 
diversity of effects of gatekeepers on the proteostasis of σ32β including 
synthesis and degradation rates, in vivo aggregation propensity and chaperone 
response. Our results suggest that gatekeeper residues affect bacterial fitness 
not only by modulating the intrinsic aggregation propensity of proteins but also 
by the manner in which they affect the processing of σ32β-GFP by the protein 
quality control machinery of the cell. In view of these observations, we 
hypothesize that variation at gatekeeper positions offers a flexible selective 
strategy to modulate the proteostatic regulation of proteins to the match 
intrinsic aggregation propensities of proteins with required expression levels.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzs031
PMID: 22706763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1754. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Feb;93(4):1553-61. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-011-3525-7. Epub 2011 Sep 3.

Purification and characterization of heterologously expressed nitrilases from 
filamentous fungi.

Petříčková A(1), Veselá AB, Kaplan O, Kubáč D, Uhnáková B, Malandra A, Felsberg 
J, Rinágelová A, Weyrauch P, Křen V, Bezouška K, Martínková L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Centre of Biocatalysis and Biotransformation, 
Prague, Czech Republic.

Erratum in
    Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2013 Oct;97(20):9263-4.

Nitrilases from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88, A. niger K10, Gibberella 
moniliformis, Neurospora crassa OR74A, and Penicillium marneffei ATCC 18224 were 
expressed in Escherichia coli BL21-Gold (DE3) after IPTG induction. N. crassa 
nitrilase exhibited the highest yield of 69,000 U L(-1) culture. Co-expression 
of chaperones (GroEL/ES in G. moniliformis and P. marneffei; GroEL/ES and 
trigger factor in N. crassa and A. niger CBS 513.88) enhanced the enzyme 
solubility. Specific activities of strains expressing the former two enzymes 
increased approximately fourfold upon co-expression of GroEL/ES. The enzyme from 
G. moniliformis (co-purified with GroEL) preferred benzonitrile as substrate 
(K(m) of 0.41 mM, V(max) of 9.7 μmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein). The P. marneffei 
enzyme (unstable in its purified state) exhibited the highest V(max) of 7.3 μmol 
min(-1) mg(-1) protein in cell-free extract, but also a high K(m) of 15.4 mM, 
for 4-cyanopyridine. The purified nitrilases from A. niger CBS 513.88 and N. 
crassa acted preferentially on phenylacetonitrile (K(m) of 3.4 and 2.0 mM, 
respectively; V(max) of 10.6 and 17.5 μmol min(-1) mg(-1) protein, 
respectively), and hydrolyzed also (R,S)-mandelonitrile with higher K(m) values. 
Significant amounts of amides were only formed by the G. moniliformis nitrilase 
from phenylacetonitrile and 4-cyanopyridine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-011-3525-7
PMID: 21892598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1755. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2015 Jun 1;575:46-53. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2015.04.003. Epub 
2015 Apr 20.

HoLaMa: A Klenow sub-fragment lacking the 3'-5' exonuclease domain.

Martina CE(1), Lapenta F(1), Montón Silva A(1), Hochkoeppler A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, University of Bologna, Viale 
Risorgimento 4, 40136 Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, University of Bologna, Viale 
Risorgimento 4, 40136 Bologna, Italy; CSGI, University of Florence, Via della 
Lastruccia 3, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, FI, Italy. Electronic address: 
a.hochkoeppler@unibo.it.

The design, construction, overexpression, and purification of a Klenow 
sub-fragment lacking the 3'-5' exonuclease domain is presented here. In 
particular, a synthetic gene coding for the residues 515-928 of Escherichia coli 
DNA polymerase I was constructed. To improve the solubility and stability of the 
corresponding protein, the synthetic gene was designed to contain 11 
site-specific substitutions. The gene was inserted into the pBADHis expression 
vector, generating 2 identical Klenow sub-fragments, bearing or not a 
hexahistidine tag. Both these Klenow sub-fragments, denominated HoLaMa and 
HoLaMaHis, were purified, and their catalytic properties were compared to those 
of Klenow enzyme. When DNA polymerase activity was assayed under processive 
conditions, the Klenow enzyme performed much better than HoLaMa and HoLaMaHis. 
However, when DNA polymerase activity was assayed under distributive conditions, 
the initial velocity of the reaction catalyzed by HoLaMa was comparable to that 
observed in the presence of Klenow enzyme. In particular, under distributive 
conditions HoLaMa was found to strongly prefer dsDNAs bearing a short template 
overhang, to the length of which the Klenow enzyme was relatively insensitive. 
Overall, our observations indicate that the exonuclease domain of the Klenow 
enzyme, besides its proofreading activity, does significantly contribute to the 
catalytic efficiency of DNA elongation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2015.04.003
PMID: 25906742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1756. Protein Sci. 2009 Feb;18(2):277-86. doi: 10.1002/pro.33.

Discovery of amyloid-beta aggregation inhibitors using an engineered assay for 
intracellular protein folding and solubility.

Lee LL(1), Ha H, Chang YT, DeLisa MP.

Author information:
(1)Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Genetic and biochemical studies suggest that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is caused 
by a series of events initiated by the production and subsequent aggregation of 
the Alzheimer's amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), the so-called amyloid cascade 
hypothesis. Thus, a logical approach to treating AD is the development of small 
molecule inhibitors that either block the proteases that generate Abeta from its 
precursor (beta- and gamma-secretases) or interrupt and/or reverse Abeta 
aggregation. To identify potent inhibitors of Abeta aggregation, we have 
developed a high-throughput screen based on an earlier selection that 
effectively paired the folding quality control feature of the Escherichia coli 
Tat protein export system with aggregation of the 42-residue AD pathogenesis 
effecter Abeta42. Specifically, a tripartite fusion between the Tat-dependent 
export signal ssTorA, the Abeta42 peptide and the beta-lactamase (Bla) reporter 
enzyme was found to be export incompetent due to aggregation of the Abeta42 
moiety. Here, we reasoned that small, cell-permeable molecules that inhibited 
Abeta42 aggregation would render the ssTorA-Abeta42-Bla chimera competent for 
Tat export to the periplasm where Bla is active against beta-lactam antibiotics 
such as ampicillin. Using a fluorescence-based version of our assay, we screened 
a library of triazine derivatives and isolated four nontoxic, cell-permeable 
compounds that promoted efficient Tat-dependent export of ssTorA-Abeta42-Bla. 
Each of these was subsequently shown to be a bona fide inhibitor of Abeta42 
aggregation using a standard thioflavin T fibrillization assay, thereby 
highlighting the utility of our bacterial assay as a useful screen for 
antiaggregation factors under physiological conditions.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.33
PMCID: PMC2708054
PMID: 19177561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1757. Microb Cell Fact. 2018 Dec 20;17(1):194. doi: 10.1186/s12934-018-1042-4.

Metabolic engineering of Methylobacterium extorquens AM1 for the production of 
butadiene precursor.

Yang J(1), Zhang CT(1), Yuan XJ(1), Zhang M(1), Mo XH(1), Tan LL(1), Zhu LP(1), 
Chen WJ(1), Yao MD(2), Hu B(3), Yang S(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Shandong Province Key Laboratory of Applied 
Mycology, and Qingdao International Center on Microbes Utilizing Biogas, Qingdao 
Agricultural University, Qingdao, Shandong, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering, Ministry of Education, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, China.
(3)Industrial Product Division, Intrexon Corporation, South San Francisco, CA, 
94080, USA.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Shandong Province Key Laboratory of Applied 
Mycology, and Qingdao International Center on Microbes Utilizing Biogas, Qingdao 
Agricultural University, Qingdao, Shandong, China. yangsong1209@163.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering, Ministry of Education, Tianjin 
University, Tianjin, China. yangsong1209@163.com.
(6)Marine Science and Engineering College, Qingdao Agricultural University, 
Qingdao, Shandong, China. yangsong1209@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Butadiene is a platform chemical used as an industrial feedstock for 
the manufacture of automobile tires, synthetic resins, latex and engineering 
plastics. Currently, butadiene is predominantly synthesized as a byproduct of 
ethylene production from non-renewable petroleum resources. Although the idea of 
biological synthesis of butadiene from sugars has been discussed in the 
literature, success for that goal has so far not been reported. As a model 
system for methanol assimilation, Methylobacterium extorquens AM1 can produce 
several unique metabolic intermediates for the production of value-added 
chemicals, including crotonyl-CoA as a potential precursor for butadiene 
synthesis.
RESULTS: In this work, we focused on constructing a metabolic pathway to convert 
crotonyl-CoA into crotyl diphosphate, a direct precursor of butadiene. The 
engineered pathway consists of three identified enzymes, a hydroxyethylthiazole 
kinase (THK) from Escherichia coli, an isopentenyl phosphate kinase (IPK) from 
Methanothermobacter thermautotrophicus and an aldehyde/alcohol dehydrogenase 
(ADHE2) from Clostridium acetobutylicum. The Km and kcat of THK, IPK and ADHE2 
were determined as 8.35 mM and 1.24 s-1, 1.28 mM and 153.14 s-1, and 2.34 mM and 
1.15 s-1 towards crotonol, crotyl monophosphate and crotonyl-CoA, respectively. 
Then, the activity of one of rate-limiting enzymes, THK, was optimized by random 
mutagenesis coupled with a developed high-throughput screening colorimetric 
assay. The resulting variant (THKM82V) isolated from over 3000 colonies showed 
8.6-fold higher activity than wild-type, which helped increase the titer of 
crotyl diphosphate to 0.76 mM, corresponding to a 7.6% conversion from crotonol 
in the one-pot in vitro reaction. Overexpression of native ADHE2, IPK with 
THKM82V under a strong promoter mxaF in M. extorquens AM1 did not produce crotyl 
diphosphate from crotonyl-CoA, but the engineered strain did generate 0.60 μg/mL 
of intracellular crotyl diphosphate from exogenously supplied crotonol at 
mid-exponential phase.
CONCLUSIONS: These results represent the first step in producing a butadiene 
precursor in recombinant M. extorquens AM1. It not only demonstrates the 
feasibility of converting crotonol to key intermediates for butadiene 
biosynthesis, it also suggests future directions for improving catalytic 
efficiency of aldehyde/alcohol dehydrogenase to produce butadiene precursor from 
methanol.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-018-1042-4
PMCID: PMC6300920
PMID: 30572892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1758. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2010 Jun;17(6):1027-33. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00468-09. Epub 
2010 Apr 21.

Construction and immunological evaluation of multivalent hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
core virus-like particles carrying HBV and HCV epitopes.

Sominskaya I(1), Skrastina D, Dislers A, Vasiljev D, Mihailova M, Ose V, 
Dreilina D, Pumpens P.

Author information:
(1)Latvian Biomedical Research and Study Centre, Ratsupites Street 1, LV-1067 
Riga, Latvia. irina@biomed.lu.lv

A multivalent vaccine candidate against hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) infections was constructed on the basis of HBV core (HBc) virus-like 
particles (VLPs) as carriers. Chimeric VLPs that carried a virus-neutralizing 
HBV pre-S1 epitope corresponding to amino acids (aa) 20 to 47 in the major 
immunodominant region (MIR) and a highly conserved N-terminal HCV core epitope 
corresponding to aa 1 to 60 at the C terminus of the truncated HBcDelta protein 
(N-terminal aa 1 to 144 of full-length HBc) were produced in Escherichia coli 
cells and examined for their antigenicity and immunogenicity. The presence of 
two different foreign epitopes within the HBc molecule did not interfere with 
its VLP-forming ability, with the HBV pre-S1 epitope exposed on the surface and 
the HCV core epitope buried within the VLPs. After immunization of BALB/c mice, 
specific T-cell activation by both foreign epitopes and a high-titer antibody 
response against the pre-S1 epitope were found, whereas an antibody response 
against the HBc carrier was notably suppressed. Both inserted epitopes also 
induced a specific cytotoxic-T-lymphocyte (CTL) response, as shown by the gamma 
interferon (IFN-gamma) production profile.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00468-09
PMCID: PMC2884416
PMID: 20410327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1759. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Jan 15;88(3):189-93.

[Screening and analysis of in vivo induced genes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang ZD(1), Li ZH, DU BP, Jia HY, Liu ZQ, Chen X, Huang HR, Xing AY, Gu SX, Ma 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Tuberculosis and Thoracic Tumor Research Institute, Beijing 101149, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To screen in vivo induced genes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and 
search possible molecular targets of new drugs, vaccines, and early diagnostic 
methods.
METHODS: In vivo induced antigen technology (IVIAT) was used in this study. 
Genomic DNA from M. tuberculosis of the strain H37Rv was extracted. The DNA was 
partially digested with Sau3A I and the purified fragments were inserted into 
the pET30a (+), pET30b (+) and pET30c (+) expression vectors to construct a 
genomic library. The library was induced with IPTG and then was screened with 
pooled tuberculosis patient sera preabsorbed with in vitro grown M. tuberculosis 
of the strain H37Rv and Escherichia coli of the strain BL21 (DE3). The inserts 
of positive clones were sequenced with primer T7 promoter. The sequences were 
aligned in the genomic database of M. tuberculosis strain H37Rv 
(http://genolist.pasteur.fr/Tuberculose) to identify the open reading frame 
(ORF).
RESULTS: The genomic expression library included 4.3 x 10(4) clones, and more 
than eighty percent were recombinant plasmids. The library reached the theoretic 
requirement. The successive adsorptions significantly decreased the anti-M. 
tuberculosis antibody titer of sera, and no significant difference was found 
between the last two adsorption groups, suggesting that the antibodies reactive 
against the M. tuberculosis H37Rv antigens expressed in vitro were removed. 
After screening of the genomic expression library and searching in the genome 
database, 51 ORFs were identified and they were classified into 8 categories 
according to the classification criterion on the website, including 1 virulence 
gene, 13 cell wall and cell processes genes, 11 intermediary metabolism and 
respiration genes, 7 lipid metabolism genes, 2 information pathways genes, 3 
PE/PPE genes, 12 conserved hypotheticals, and 2 conserved hypotheticals with an 
orthologue in M. bovis.
CONCLUSION: Genes expressed specially during human M. tuberculosis infections 
can be identified with in vivo induced antigen technology. Analysis of these 
genes identified using IVIAT shows that some genes are related to virulence, 
some are essential genes for M. tuberculosis, and some encoded proteins have 
strong immunogenicity, suggesting that some of them can be used as molecular 
targets of anti-tuberculosis drugs, vaccines, and tuberculosis early diagnosis.

PMID: 18361819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1760. Infect Immun. 2009 Apr;77(4):1475-82. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00828-08. Epub 2009 Jan 
29.

Anthrax protective antigen delivered by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi Ty21a 
protects mice from a lethal anthrax spore challenge.

Osorio M(1), Wu Y, Singh S, Merkel TJ, Bhattacharyya S, Blake MS, Kopecko DJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bacterial, Parasitic and Allergenic Products, Center for 
Biologics Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892, USA. manuel.osorio@fda.hhs.gov

Bacillus anthracis, the etiological agent of anthrax disease, is a proven weapon 
of bioterrorism. Currently, the only licensed vaccine against anthrax in the 
United States is AVA Biothrax, which, although efficacious, suffers from several 
limitations. This vaccine requires six injectable doses over 18 months to 
stimulate protective immunity, requires a cold chain for storage, and in many 
cases has been associated with adverse effects. In this study, we modified the 
B. anthracis protective antigen (PA) gene for optimal expression and stability, 
linked it to an inducible promoter for maximal expression in the host, and fused 
it to the secretion signal of the Escherichia coli alpha-hemolysin protein 
(HlyA) on a low-copy-number plasmid. This plasmid was introduced into the 
licensed typhoid vaccine strain, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi strain Ty21a, 
and was found to be genetically stable. Immunization of mice with three vaccine 
doses elicited a strong PA-specific serum immunoglobulin G response with a 
geometric mean titer of 30,000 (range, 5,800 to 157,000) and 
lethal-toxin-neutralizing titers greater than 16,000. Vaccinated mice 
demonstrated 100% protection against a lethal intranasal challenge with 
aerosolized spores of B. anthracis 7702. The ultimate goal is a 
temperature-stable, safe, oral human vaccine against anthrax infection that can 
be self-administered in a few doses over a short period of time.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00828-08
PMCID: PMC2663156
PMID: 19179420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1761. J Virol Methods. 2018 Nov;261:121-131. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2018.08.018. Epub 
2018 Aug 27.

Development and characterization of ORF68 negative equine herpes virus type-1, 
Ab4p strain.

Ata EB(1), Zaghawa A(2), Ghazy AA(3), Elsify A(2), Abdelrahman K(3), Kasem S(4), 
Nayel M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology and Animal Diseases, Veterinary Research Division, 
National Research Centre (NRC), Egypt; Laboratory of Veterinary Microbiology, 
Faculty of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu University, 1-1 Yanagido, Gifu, 
501-1193, Japan. Electronic address: emadvet2003@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, Sadat City University, Egypt.
(3)Department of Parasitology and Animal Diseases, Veterinary Research Division, 
National Research Centre (NRC), Egypt.
(4)Department of Virology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kafrelsheikh 
University, 33516, El-Geish street, Kafrelsheikh, Egypt; Laboratory of 
Veterinary Microbiology, Faculty of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu 
University, 1-1 Yanagido, Gifu, 501-1193, Japan.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, Sadat City University, Egypt; Laboratory of Veterinary 
Microbiology, Faculty of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu University, 1-1 
Yanagido, Gifu, 501-1193, Japan.

Equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV-1) is an important pathogen, which infects horses 
worldwide with high morbidity but low mortality rates. The respiratory disorders 
and abortions are the most common indicators. Ab4p (an abortigenic and paralytic 
virus) is one of the most important and virulent strains. The development and 
functional characterization of the open reading frame-68 (ORF68) negative EHV-1 
Ab4p mutants and an assessment of their roles in the infection at the cellular 
level were the main targets of the current study. Escherichia coli DH10β 
containing the Ab4p bacterial artificial chromosome (pAb4pBAC) and Red/ET 
expression vector were used to develop different ORF68 mutants. Multi-step 
growth kinetic experiments were conducted in order to evaluate the growth 
properties of the constructed mutant viruses. Growth of the Ab4pΔORF68 showed 
the lowest titer, compared to the Ab4pΔORF68R, Ab4pΔORF68R non-sense, and the 
parent Ab4p viruses without any significant difference (P > 0.05). The growth of 
the mutant viruses was almost similar across the cell types, but viruses growth 
was more efficient in FHK cells as judged by the number of the obtained virus 
particles. The plaque size of Ab4pΔORF68 was significantly (40%) smaller than 
those of Ab4p (P < 0.01), Ab4pΔORF68R, and Ab4pΔORF68R non-sense viruses which 
confirmed the importance of ORF68 protein in the cell-to-cell transmission of 
EHV-1. Subcellular localization of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) ORF68 
gene fusion product showed late expression with intranuclear localization of the 
transfected cells while immunofluorescent antibody technique (IFAT) localized it 
at the nucleus and nuclear membranes of the infected cells. Hence, it could be 
concluded that ORF68 protein may not be essential for EHV-1 Ab4p growth but 
plays a crucial role in virus penetration and transmission at the cellular 
level. Therefore, the generated EHV-1 ORF68 negative mutant could be a 
prospective candidate for the development of a vaccine marker.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2018.08.018
PMID: 30165189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1762. Vaccines (Basel). 2021 Feb 10;9(2):142. doi: 10.3390/vaccines9020142.

Development of a Viral-Like Particle Candidate Vaccine Against Novel Variant 
Infectious Bursal Disease Virus.

Wang Y(1)(2), Jiang N(1)(2), Fan L(1)(2), Gao L(1)(2), Li K(1), Gao Y(1)(2), Niu 
X(1)(2), Zhang W(1)(2), Cui H(1)(2), Liu A(1)(2), Pan Q(1), Liu C(1), Zhang 
Y(1), Wang X(1)(2)(3), Qi X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research 
Institute, Avian Immunosuppressive Diseases Division, The Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Harbin 150069, China.
(2)OIE Reference Laboratory for Infectious Bursal Disease, Harbin Veterinary 
Research Institute, The Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Harbin 150069, 
China.
(3)Jiangsu Co-innovation Centre for Prevention and Control of Important Animal 
Infectious Disease and Zoonosis, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China.

Infectious bursal disease (IBD), an immunosuppressive disease of young chickens, 
is caused by infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV). Novel variant IBDV 
(nVarIBDV), a virus that can evade immune protection against very virulent IBDV 
(vvIBDV), is becoming a threat to the poultry industry. Therefore, 
nVarIBDV-specific vaccine is much needed for nVarIBDV control. In this study, 
the VP2 protein of SHG19 (a representative strain of nVarIBDV) was successfully 
expressed using an Escherichia coli expression system and further purified via 
ammonium sulfate precipitation and size-exclusion chromatography. The purified 
protein SHG19-VP2-466 could self-assemble into 25-nm virus-like particle (VLP). 
Subsequently, the immunogenicity and protective effect of the SHG19-VLP vaccine 
were evaluated using animal experiments, which indicated that the SHG19-VLP 
vaccine elicited neutralization antibodies and provided 100% protection against 
the nVarIBDV. Furthermore, the protective efficacy of the SHG19-VLP vaccine 
against the vvIBDV was evaluated. Although the SHG19-VLP vaccine induced a 
comparatively lower vvIBDV-specific neutralization antibody titer, it provided 
good protection against the lethal vvIBDV. In summary, the SHG19-VLP candidate 
vaccine could provide complete immune protection against the homologous nVarIBDV 
as well as the heterologous vvIBDV. This study is of significance to the 
comprehensive prevention and control of the recent atypical IBD epidemic.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines9020142
PMCID: PMC7916800
PMID: 33579020

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


1763. PeerJ. 2019 Dec 20;7:e8300. doi: 10.7717/peerj.8300. eCollection 2019.

Heterologous expression, purification and biochemical characterization of a 
glutamate racemase (MurI) from Streptococcus mutans UA159.

Wang X(#)(1), Chen C(#)(2), Shen T(1), Zhang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Operative Dentistry and Endodotics, Xiangya School of 
Stomatology, Xiangya Stomatological Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Glutamate racemase (MurI) is a cofactor-independent enzyme that is 
essential to the bacterial peptidoglycan biosynthesis pathway and has therefore 
been considered an attractive target for the development of antimicrobial drugs. 
While in our previous study the essentiality of the murI gene was shown in 
Streptococcus mutans, the primary aetiologic agent of human dental caries, 
studies on S. mutans MurI have not yet provided definitive results. This study 
aimed to produce and characterize the biochemical properties of the MurI from 
the S. mutans UA159 genome.
METHODS: Structure characterization prediction and multiple sequence alignment 
were performed by bioinformatic analysis. Recombinant His6-tagged S. mutans MurI 
was overexpressed in the expression vector pColdII and further purified using a 
Ni2+ affinity chromatography method. Protein solubility, purity and aggregation 
state were analyzed by SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, native PAGE and SEC-HPLC. 
Kinetic parameters were assessed by a circular dichroism (CD) assay. Kinetic 
constants were calculated based on the curve fit for the Michaelis-Menten 
equation. The effects of temperature and pH on enzymatic activity were 
determined by a series of coupled enzyme reaction mixtures.
RESULTS: The glutamate racemase gene from S. mutans UA159 was amplified by PCR, 
cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The 264-amino-acid protein, 
as a mixture of dimeric and monomeric enzymes, was purified to electrophoretic 
homogeneity. In the CD assay, S. mutans MurI displayed unique kinetic parameters 
(K m, d-Glu→l-Glu = 0.3631 ± 0.3205 mM, V max, d-Glu→l-Glu = 0.1963 ± 0.0361 mM 
min-1, k cat, d-Glu→l-Glu = 0.0306 ± 0.0065 s-1, k cat/K m, d-Glu→l-Glu = 0.0844 
± 0.0128 s-1 mM-1, with d-glutamate as substrate; K m, l-Glu→d-Glu = 0.8077 ± 
0.5081 mM, V max, l-Glu→d-Glu = 0.2421 ± 0.0418 mM min-1, k cat , l - Glu→d-Glu 
= 0.0378 ± 0.0056 s-1, k cat/K m, l-Glu→d-Glu = 0.0468 ± 0.0176 s-1 mM-1, with 
l-glutamate as substrate). S. mutans MurI possessed an assay temperature optimum 
of 37.5 °C and its optimum pH was 8.0.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study provide insight into the structure and 
biochemical traits of the glutamate racemase in S. mutans and supply a 
conceivable guideline for employing glutamate racemase in anti-caries drug 
design.

© 2019 Wang et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.8300
PMCID: PMC6927343
PMID: 31875162

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


1764. Protein Expr Purif. 2013 Mar;88(1):98-106. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.11.018. Epub 
2012 Dec 13.

High-level expression, purification, and characterization of Staphylococcus 
aureus dihydroorotase (PyrC) as a cleavable His-SUMO fusion.

Truong L(1), Hevener KE, Rice AJ, Patel K, Johnson ME, Lee H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, University of Illinois at Chicago, 
900 S. Ashland Ave., Suite 3100, Chicago, IL 60607-7173, USA.

Staphylococcus aureus is a pathogenic bacterium that causes a variety of mild to 
lethal human diseases. The rapid spread of multidrug-resistant strains makes the 
discovery of new antimicrobial agents critical. Dihydroorotase (PyrC), the third 
enzyme in the bacterial pyrimidine biosynthesis pathway, is structurally and 
mechanistically distinct from its mammalian counterpart. It has been confirmed 
to be essential in S. aureus making it an attractive antibacterial drug target. 
No protocol to express and purify S. aureus PyrC (SaPyrC) has been reported. To 
obtain the SaPyrC enzyme and overcome anticipated solubility problems, the 
SaPyrC gene was cloned into the pET-SUMO vector. The N-terminal His-SUMO fused 
SaPyrC was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) with an HRV 3C protease 
recognition site inserted between the SUMO tag and SaPyrC to allow for improved 
cleavage by HRV protease. Purification of cleaved protein using HisTrap affinity 
and gel filtration columns resulted in native SaPyrC with estimated 95% purity 
and 40% yield. Both His-SUMO tagged and native SaPyrC form dimers, and enzyme 
characterization studies have shown that the His-SUMO tag affects enzyme 
activity slightly. Forward and reverse kinetic rate constants for both tagged 
and native SaPyrC were determined, and pH profiling studies revealed the optimal 
pH values for forward and reverse reactions.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2012.11.018
PMCID: PMC5663463
PMID: 23246866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1765. J Struct Biol. 2014 Jun;186(3):335-48. doi: 10.1016/j.jsb.2014.03.002. Epub 2014 
Mar 12.

Improving coiled coil stability while maintaining specificity by a bacterial 
hitchhiker selection system.

Kükenshöner T(1), Wohlwend D(2), Niemöller C(3), Dondapati P(1), Speck J(1), 
Adeniran AV(1), Nieth A(4), Gerhardt S(2), Einsle O(5), Müller KM(6), Arndt 
KM(7).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biotechnology, Institute for Biochemistry and Biology, University 
of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany; Institute for Biology III, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany.
(2)Institute for Biochemistry, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, 
Germany.
(3)Institute for Biology III, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, 
Germany.
(4)Institute for Biology III, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, 
Germany; Centre for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), University of 
Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany; Freiburg Institute for Advanced 
Studies, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany.
(5)Centre for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany; Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies, 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany; Institute for 
Biochemistry, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany.
(6)Molecular Biotechnology, Institute for Biochemistry and Biology, University 
of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany; Institute for Biology III, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany; Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology, Faculty of 
Technology, Bielefeld University, Germany.
(7)Molecular Biotechnology, Institute for Biochemistry and Biology, University 
of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany; Institute for Biology III, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany; Centre for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany; Freiburg Institute for 
Advanced Studies, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany. 
Electronic address: katja.arndt@uni-potsdam.de.

The design and selection of peptides targeting cellular proteins is challenging 
and often yields candidates with undesired properties. Therefore we deployed a 
new selection system based on the twin-arginine translocase (TAT) pathway of 
Escherichia coli, named hitchhiker translocation (HiT) selection. A pool of 
α-helix encoding sequences was designed and selected for interference with the 
coiled coil domain (CC) of a melanoma-associated 
basic-helix-loop-helix-leucine-zipper (bHLHLZ) protein, the microphthalmia 
associated transcription factor (MITF). One predominant sequence (iM10) was 
enriched during selection and showed remarkable protease resistance, high 
solubility and thermal stability while maintaining its specificity. Furthermore, 
it exhibited nanomolar range affinity towards the target peptide. A mutation 
screen indicated that target-binding helices of increased homodimer stability 
and improved expression rates were preferred in the selection process. The 
crystal structure of the iM10/MITF-CC heterodimer (2.1Å) provided important 
structural insights and validated our design predictions. Importantly, iM10 did 
not only bind to the MITF coiled coil, but also to the markedly more stable 
HLHLZ domain of MITF. Characterizing the selected variants of the semi-rational 
library demonstrated the potential of the innovative bacterial selection 
approach.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2014.03.002
PMID: 24631970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1766. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2021 Nov;118(11):4503-4515. doi: 10.1002/bit.27919. Epub 2021 
Aug 25.

Rational design of a highly efficient catalytic system for the production of 
PAPS from ATP and its application in the synthesis of chondroitin sulfate.

Liu K(1)(2)(3), Chen X(1)(2)(3), Zhong Y(1)(2)(3), Gao C(1)(2)(3), Hu G(3)(4), 
Liu J(1)(2)(3), Guo L(1)(2)(3), Song W(3)(4), Liu L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(3)International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 
China.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Science, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.

The compound 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) serves as a sulfate 
group donor in the production of valuable sulfated compounds. However, elevated 
costs and low conversion efficiency limit the industrial applicability of PAPS. 
Here, we designed and constructed an efficient and controllable catalytic system 
for the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) (disodium salt) into PAPS 
without inhibition from by-products. In vitro and in vivo testing in Escherichia 
coli identified adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate kinase from Penicillium chrysogenum 
(PcAPSK) as the rate-limiting enzyme. Based on analysis of the catalytic steps 
and molecular dynamics simulations, a mechanism-guided "ADP expulsion" strategy 
was developed to generate an improved PcAPSK variant (L7), with a specific 
activity of 48.94 U·mg-1 and 73.27-fold higher catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) 
that of the wild-type enzyme. The improvement was attained chiefly by reducing 
the ADP-binding affinity of PcAPSK, as well as by changing the enzyme's 
flexibility and lid structure to a more open conformation. By introducing PcAPSK 
L7 in an in vivo catalytic system, 73.59 mM (37.32 g·L-1 ) PAPS was produced 
from 150 mM ATP in 18.5 h using a 3-L bioreactor, and achieved titer is the 
highest reported to date and corresponds to a 98.13% conversion rate. Then, the 
PAPS catalytic system was combined with the chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase using 
a one-pot method. Finally, chondroitin sulfate was transformed from chondroitin 
at a conversion rate of 98.75%. This strategy has great potential for scale 
biosynthesis of PAPS and chondroitin sulfate.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27919
PMID: 34406648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1767. Front Microbiol. 2019 Jul 23;10:1674. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01674. eCollection 
2019.

The Removal of Endo- and Enterotoxins From Bacteriophage Preparations.

Hietala V(1), Horsma-Heikkinen J(1)(2), Carron A(1), Skurnik M(1)(2), Kiljunen 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology and Immunology, Human Microbiome Research Program, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Division of Clinical Microbiology, HUSLAB, Helsinki University Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland.

The production of phages for therapeutic purposes demands fast, efficient and 
scalable purification procedures. Phage lysates have a wide range of impurities, 
of which endotoxins of gram-negative bacteria and protein toxins produced by 
many pathogenic bacterial species are harmful to humans. The highest allowed 
endotoxin concentration for parenterally applied medicines is 5 EU/kg/h. The aim 
of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of different purification methods 
in endotoxin and protein toxin removal in the production of phage preparations 
for clinical use. In the purification assays, we utilized three phages: 
Escherichia phage vB_EcoM_fHoEco02, Acinetobacter phage vB_ApiM_fHyAci03, and 
Staphylococcus phage vB_SauM_fRuSau02. The purification methods tested in the 
study were precipitation with polyethylene glycol, ultracentrifugation, 
ultrafiltration, anion exchange chromatography, octanol extraction, two 
different endotoxin removal columns, and different combinations thereof. The 
efficiency of the applied purification protocols was evaluated by measuring 
phage titer and either endotoxins or staphylococcal enterotoxins A and C (SEA 
and SEC, respectively) from samples taken from different purification steps. The 
most efficient procedure in endotoxin removal was the combination of 
ultrafiltration and EndoTrap HD affinity column, which was able to reduce the 
endotoxin-to-phage ratio of vB_EcoM_fHoEco02 lysate from 3.5 × 104 Endotoxin 
Units (EU)/109 plaque forming units (PFU) to 0.09 EU/109 PFU. The combination of 
ultrafiltration and anion exchange chromatography resulted in ratio 96 EU/109 
PFU, and the addition of octanol extraction step into this procedure still 
reduced this ratio threefold. The other methods tested either resulted to less 
efficient endotoxin removal or required the use of harmful chemicals that should 
be avoided when producing phage preparations for medical use. Ultrafiltration 
with 100,000 MWCO efficiently removed enterotoxins from vB_SauM_fRuSau02 lysate 
(from 1.3 to 0.06 ng SEA/109 PFU), and anion exchange chromatography reduced the 
enterotoxin concentration below 0.25 ng/ml, the detection limit of the assay.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01674
PMCID: PMC6664067
PMID: 31396188


1768. Ann Thorac Surg. 2002 Oct;74(4):1161-6; discussion 1166. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-4975(02)03831-6.

Gene transfer to coronary artery bypass conduits.

Chiu-Pinheiro CK, O'Brien T, Katusic ZS, Bonilla LF, Hamner CE, Schaff HV.

BACKGROUND: Gene therapy is a rational approach to prevention of stenosis in 
saphenous vein grafts used as conduits for coronary artery bypass grafting. To 
explore this possibility we developed methods for adenoviral-mediated gene 
transfer to canine saphenous veins.
METHODS: During a single procedure, autogenous canine saphenous vein segments 
were transduced ex vivo and used as coronary artery bypass grafts. The proximal 
end of each vein was ligated, adenovirus containing the Escherichia coli 
beta-galactosidase gene (Ad.CMVLacZ) was delivered at titers of 2.5 x 10(9) or 5 
x 10(9) plaque-forming units (pfu)/mL to the lumen through a distal heparin 
lock, and the segment was immersed in the viral solution for 1 hour at 37 
degrees C. Control segments were exposed to diluent alone in an identical 
manner. Aortocoronary anastomoses were made using cardiopulmonary bypass. 
Transgene expression was assessed qualitatively and quantitatively after 3 days.
RESULTS: Beta-galactosidase levels showed a dose-dependent increase: 0.00 +/- 
0.00 ng/mg total protein for controls; 5.60 +/- 2.27 ng/mg total protein for a 
viral titer of 2.5 x 10(9) pfu/mL and 11.97 +/- 6.14 ng/mg for 5 x 10(9) pfu/mL. 
The two dosage groups differed significantly from each other (p = 0.035) and 
from controls (p = 0.003). X-gal staining demonstrated mostly endothelial and 
scattered adventitial transgene expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Transgene expression after ex vivo gene transfer into saphenous 
vein grafts in a canine coronary artery bypass model indicates that this method 
may be useful for delivery of therapeutic genes to prevent or retard vein graft 
arteriosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(02)03831-6
PMID: 12400762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1769. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2019 Jul;22(7):827-832. doi: 
10.22038/ijbms.2019.32414.7989.

Determination of antimicrobial effect of protamine by transmission electron 
microscopy and SDS PAGE on Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates from diabetic foot 
infection.

Aziz M(1)(2), Garduno R(3), Mirani ZA(4), Baqai R(2)(5), Sheikh AS(6), Nazir 
H(7), Raza Y(2), Ayaz M(1), Kazmi SU(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Karachi, Karachi, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada.
(4)PCSIR Laboratories Complex, Karachi, Pakistan.
(5)Departmet of Clinical Microbiology & Immunology, Dadabhoy Institute of Higher 
Education, Karachi, Pakistan.
(6)Institute of Food Science and Nutrition, Bahauddin Zakariya University, 
Multan, Pakistan.
(7)Islamic International University, Islamabad.

OBJECTIVES: Diabetic foot infection is one of the major complications of 
diabetes leading to lower limb amputations. Isolation and identification of 
bacteria causing diabetic foot infection, determination of antibiotic 
resistance, antimicrobial potential of protamine by electron microscopy and 
SDS-PAGE analysis, arethe aims of this study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 285 pus samples from diabetic foot infection patients 
were collected from different hospitals of Karachi and Capital Health Hospital, 
Halifax, Canada. Clinical history of each patient was recorded. Bacterial 
isolates were cultured on appropriate media; identification was done by 
morphology, cultural and biochemical tests. Effect of protamine against multi 
drug resistant strains of Pseudomona aeruginosa was checked by minimum 
inhibitory concentration in 96 well micro-titer plates. The isolates were grown 
in bactericidal concentration of protamine on plates to isolate mutants. Effect 
of protamine on protein expression was checked by SDS- PAGE and ultra-structural 
morphological changes by transmission electron microscopy.
RESULTS: Results indicated prevalence of foot infection as 92% in diabetic 
patients. Major bacterial isolates were Staphylococcus aureus 65 (23%), P. 
aeruginosa 80 (28.1%), Klebsiella spp. 37 (13%), Proteus mirabilis 79 (27.7%), 
and Escherichia coli 24 (12%). These isolates were highly resistant to different 
antibiotics. MIC value of protamine was 500 µg/ml against P. aeruginosa. 
SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that protamine can suppress expression of various 
virulence proteins and electron micrographs indicated condensation of cytoplasm 
and accumulation of protamine in cytoplasm without damaging the cell membrane.
CONCLUSION: P. aeruginosa and S. aureus were the major isolates expressing 
multi-drug resistance and protamine sulfate represented good antimicrobial 
potential.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2019.32414.7989
PMCID: PMC7196347
PMID: 32373306


1770. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2022 Mar 16;123:314-323. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2022.03.009. 
Online ahead of print.

Identification and immune responses of thrombocytes in bacterial and viral 
infections in grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella).

He Y(1), Zhu W(2), Xu T(2), Liao Z(2), Su J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aquatic Animal Medicine, College of Fisheries, Huazhong 
Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China; Laboratory for Marine Biology and 
Biotechnology, Pilot National Laboratory for Marine Science and Technology, 
Qingdao, 266237, China; Hubei Hongshan Laboratory, Engineering Research Center 
of Green Development for Conventional Aquatic Biological Industry in the Yangtze 
River Economic Belt, Ministry of Education, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, 430070, China.
(2)Department of Aquatic Animal Medicine, College of Fisheries, Huazhong 
Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China.
(3)Department of Aquatic Animal Medicine, College of Fisheries, Huazhong 
Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China; Laboratory for Marine Biology and 
Biotechnology, Pilot National Laboratory for Marine Science and Technology, 
Qingdao, 266237, China; Hubei Hongshan Laboratory, Engineering Research Center 
of Green Development for Conventional Aquatic Biological Industry in the Yangtze 
River Economic Belt, Ministry of Education, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, 430070, China. Electronic address: sujianguo@mail.hzau.edu.cn.

Thrombocytes are an important component in peripheral blood cells and play a 
crucial role in immune regulation. CD41 is one of the biomarkers of 
thrombocytes. In this study, grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) CD41 protein 
was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by affinity chromatography. 
Subsequently, New Zealand rabbits were immunized with this protein via 
subcutaneous injection. The antibody titer examined by enzyme linked 
immunosorbent assay was 1:12800. The concentration of rabbit polyclonal antibody 
purified by HiTrap-rprotein-AFF affinity chromatography column was 1.9 mg/mL. 
The specificity was identified by SDS-PAGE, Western blot, flow cytometry, and 
indirect immunofluorescence assays. The purified antibody was used to screen 
grass carp thrombocytes, and CD41+ cells were 14.13%. CD41+ cells were further 
verified by Giemsa staining, transmission electron microscopy and RT-PCR. mRNA 
expression of CD41 in thrombocytes was not affected by viral or bacterial 
challenge in vitro, while CD41 transcripts were remarkably induced post 
pathogenic infections in vivo, which results from the immature hematopoietic 
stem cells and thrombocytes. Indirect immunofluorescence assay revealed that 
grass carp reovirus (GCRV) could not invade thrombocytes; however, mRNA 
expressions of some representative innate immune genes (IFN1, IL-1β, TNFα and 
Mx2) were significantly up-regulated post GCRV challenge. Meanwhile, the 
transcripts of some innate immune genes (IL-6 and TNFα) were swiftly increased 
post bacterial infection. These results indicated that the rabbit anti-CD41 
polyclonal antibody possesses good specificity and can effectively bind to the 
CD41 protein on the surface of grass carp thrombocytes. Grass carp thrombocytes 
participate in immune regulation in viral and bacterial infections.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2022.03.009
PMID: 35306178


1771. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2017 May;19(5):583-589. doi: 
10.7499/j.issn.1008-8830.2017.05.021.

[Immunoprotective effect of combined pneumococcal endopeptidase O and 
pneumococcal surface adhesin A vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae 
infection].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang J(1), Cui YL, Jiang YM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, West China Second University Hospital, 
Sichuan University/Key Laboratory of Birth Defects and Related Diseases of Women 
and Children, Ministry of Education, Chengdu 610041, China. 
jiangyongmei-1@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prokaryotic expression of proteins pneumococcal 
endopeptidase O (PepO) and pneumococcal surface adhesin A (PsaA) in 
Streptococcus pneumoniae and their immunoprotective effect as vaccine candidate 
proteins.
METHODS: Specific primers of target gene fragments were designed, and then PCR 
amplification was performed to establish recombinant plasmids pET28a(+)-pepO and 
pET28a(+)-psaA, which were transformed into host cells, Escherichia coli BL21 
and DE3, respectively, to induce expression. Highly purified target proteins 
PepO and PsaA were obtained after purification. Mucosal immunization was 
performed for BALB/c mice and specific antiserum was prepared. ELISA was used to 
measure the antibody titer, and Western blot was used to analyze the specificity 
of the antiserum of target proteins. The mice were randomly divided into 
negative control group, PepO group, PsaA group, and PepO+PsaA combined 
immunization group, with 18 mice in each group. The models of different 
serotypes of Streptococcus pneumoniae infection were established to evaluate the 
immunoprotective effect of target proteins used alone or in combination.
RESULTS: The target proteins PepO and PsaA were successfully obtained and 
Western blot demonstrated that the antiserum of these proteins had good 
specificity. There was no significant difference in the titers of IgA in saliva 
and IgG in serum between the PepO group and the combined immunization group 
(P>0.05); however, these two groups had significantly higher antibody titers 
than the PsaA group (P<0.05). The PepO, PsaA, and combined immunization groups 
had significantly higher protection rates for mice infected with Streptococcus 
pneumoniae D39 and CMCC31436 in the nasal cavity than the negative control group 
(P<0.05). The PepO and combined immunization groups had a significantly higher 
protection rate for mice infected with Streptococcus pneumoniae D39 than the 
PsaA group (P<0.05). The results of colonization experiment showed that compared 
with the control group, the PepO, PsaA, and combined immunization groups showed 
a significant reduction in the colonization of Streptococcus pneumoniae 
(CMCC31693 and CMCC31207) in the nasopharynx and lung (P<0.05). The combined 
immunization group showed a better effect on reducing the colonization of 
CMCC31207 in the lung than the PepO and PsaA alone groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined PepO/PsaA vaccines may produce a better protective effect 
by mucosal immunization compared with the vaccine used alone in mice. The 
combined vaccines can effectively reduce the colonization of Streptococcus 
pneumoniae in the nasopharynx and lung. Therefore, such protein vaccines may 
have a great potential for research and development.

目的: 原核表达肺炎链球菌内肽酶O（PepO）及肺炎链球菌表面黏附素A（PsaA），评价其作为疫苗候选蛋白的免疫保护效果。
方法: 
设计pepO，psaA目的基因片段的特异性引物，经PCR扩增，构建重组质粒pET28a（+）-pepO，pET28a（+）-psaA，重组质粒转化大肠埃希菌BL21（DE3）诱导表达，经纯化后获得高纯度目的蛋白PepO及PsaA。经黏膜免疫BALB/c小鼠制备其特异性抗血清，ELISA检测抗体效价，Western 
blot分析验证目的蛋白抗血清的特异性。将BALB/c小鼠随机分为阴性对照组、PepO组、PsaA组及PepO+PsaA联合免疫组，每组18只。构建不同血清型肺炎链球菌感染模型，评估目的蛋白单用及联合使用的免疫保护效果。
结果: 成功制备并获得目的蛋白PepO及PsaA，经Western 
blot验证目的蛋白抗血清特异性好。PepO组和联合免疫组小鼠唾液中IgA及血清中IgG效价比较差异无统计学意义（P > 0.05），但均高于PsaA组（P < 
0.05）。PepO组、PsaA组及联合免疫组对鼻腔感染肺炎链球菌D39及CMCC31436小鼠的保护率高于阴性对照组（P < 
0.05），且PepO组及联合免疫组对鼻腔感染肺炎链球菌D39小鼠的保护率高于PsaA组（P < 
0.05）。抗定植实验结果显示，与对照组比较，PepO组、PsaA组及联合免疫组均能有效降低肺炎链球菌CMCC31693及CMCC31207在小鼠鼻咽部和肺部的定植（P 
< 0.05），且联合免疫组对降低肺炎链球菌CMCC31207在小鼠肺部的定植效果更好（P < 0.05）。
结论: PepO+PsaA联合疫苗经黏膜途径免疫小鼠后，较单用对小鼠有更好的保护作用，能有效抵抗肺炎链球菌在鼻咽部、肺部的定植，是一组较有开发潜力的蛋白疫苗。

DOI: 10.7499/j.issn.1008-8830.2017.05.021
PMCID: PMC7389137
PMID: 28506354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1772. Iran J Immunol. 2015 Sep;12(3):188-97.

Subunit Vaccine Preparation of Bovine Rotavirus and Its Efficacy in Mice.

Suocheng W(1), Tuanjie C, Changjun S, Fengling T, Zhongren M.

Author information:
(1)Life Science and Engineering College, Northwest University for Nationalities, 
Lanzhou, China, email: weisc668@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Rotaviruses (RV) are important viral diarrheal agents in calves. 
Vaccination is an optimum measure to prevent bovine rotaviruses (BRV) infection. 
However, little research on BRV VP7 vaccine has been done and currently there is 
no BRV vaccine.
OBJECTIVE: To prepare a subunit vaccine of BRV and investigate its efficacy.
METHODS: Total RNA was extracted from MA104 cells infected with bovine rotavirus 
(BRV) strain GSB01. BRV VP7 gene was amplified using real time fluorescence 
quantitative PCR (qPCR). The pEASY-T3-VP7 plasmid was digested using HindⅢ and 
BamHI restriction endonucleases, then recombined into the prokaryotic expression 
vector pET32a. The pET32a-VP7 and pET32a-VP7-LTB (heat-labile enterotoxin B 
subunit) were transformed into BL21 (DE3) competent cells of Escherichia coli, 
respectively, and induced with IPTG, then analyzed using SDS-PAGE. Sixty mice 
were randomly divided into three groups (n=20). Group A mice was used as His-tag 
control and mice in group B and C were inoculated with pET32a-VP7 and 
pET32a-VP7-LTB, respectively. VP7 IgG antibody titers and protection efficiency 
of pET32a-VP7-LTB were further determined in neonatal mice challenged with GSB01 
BRV strain.
RESULTS: SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the pET32a-VP7 was highly expressed in 
the BL21 (DE3) cells. PET32a-VP7 and pET32a-VP7-LTB protein could promote VP7 
IgG antibody titer（8.33×103 vs. 17.26×103）in mice. Immunization protection 
ratios of pET32a-VP7 and pET32a-VP7-LTB proteins in the neonatal mice were 86.4% 
and 91.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The fusion protein of pET32a-VP7-LTB had excellent immunogenicity 
and protected mice from BRV infection. Our findings can be used for further 
developing of a high-efficiency subunit vaccine of BRV.

PMID: 26412637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1773. World J Gastroenterol. 2006 Aug 7;12(29):4727-35. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v12.i29.4727.

Coimmunization with IL-15 plasmid enhances the longevity of CD8 T cells induced 
by DNA encoding hepatitis B virus core antigen.

Zhang W(1), Dong SF, Sun SH, Wang Y, Li GD, Qu D.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Virology, Shanghai Medical College of 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.

AIM: To test the feasibility of delivering a plasmid encoding IL-15 as a DNA 
vaccine adjuvant for improving the immune responses induced by hepatitis B virus 
core gene DNA vaccine.
METHODS: We used RT-PCR based strategies to develop IL-15 expression constructs. 
We first confirmed that the gene could be expressed in Escherichia coli due to 
the poor expression of IL-15. Then the bioactivity of IL-15 plasmid expression 
product was identified by CTLL-2 proliferation assay. One hundred micrograms of 
DNA from each of the IL-15 eukaryotic expressed plasmid and the recombinant 
plasmid harboring DNA encoding the 144 amino acids of the N-terminus of HBV core 
gene (abbreviated pHBc144) was used to co-immunize C57 BL/6 mice. The titer of 
anti-HBcIgG was detected by ELISA and the antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells 
(CD8(+)IFN-gamma(+) T cells) were detected by intracellular cytokine staining at 
different time points.
RESULTS: After co-immunization by pIL-15 and pHBc144 DNA vaccine the 
antigen-specific CD8(+) cells of mice increased gradually, the first peak of 
immune response appeared 14 d later, then the number of antigen-specific CD8(+) 
Ts cells decreased gradually and maintained at a steady level in 3 mo. After 
boosting, the number of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells reached the second peak 
10 d later with a double of the 1st peak, then the number of antigen-specific 
CD8(+) T cells decreased slowly. IL-15 as a gene adjuvant had no significant 
effect on humoral immune responses induced by hepatitis B virus core gene DNA 
vaccine, but increased the memory antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells induced by 
hepatitis B virus core gene DNA vaccine.
CONCLUSION: DNA vaccine constructed by HBc Ag 1-144 amino acid induces effective 
cell immunity, and cytokine plasmid-delivered IL-15 enhances the longevity of 
CD8(+) T cells.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v12.i29.4727
PMCID: PMC4087841
PMID: 16937447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1774. Biointerphases. 2017 Nov 7;12(5):05G607. doi: 10.1116/1.4996434.

Silver-, calcium-, and copper molybdate compounds: Preparation, antibacterial 
activity, and mechanisms.

Tanasic D(1), Rathner A(2), Kollender JP(1), Rathner P(2), Müller N(2), Zelenka 
KC(3), Hassel AW(4), Mardare CC(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Chemical Technology of Inorganic Materials, Johannes Kepler 
University Linz, Altenberger Str. 69, 4040 Linz, Austria.
(2)Institute of Organic Chemistry, Johannes Kepler University Linz, Altenberger 
Str. 69, 4040 Linz, Austria.
(3)CEST Competence Center for Electrochemical Surface Technology, Viktor Kaplan 
Str. 2, 2700 Wiener Neustadt, Austria and Institute for Chemical Technology of 
Inorganic Materials, Johannes Kepler University Linz, Altenberger Str. 69, 4040 
Linz, Austria.
(4)CEST Competence Center for Electrochemical Surface Technology, Viktor Kaplan 
Str. 2, 2700 Wiener Neustadt, Austria; Institute for Chemical Technology of 
Inorganic Materials, Johannes Kepler University Linz, Altenberger Str. 69, 4040 
Linz, Austria; and Christian Doppler Laboratory for Combinatorial Oxide 
Chemistry at the Institute for Chemical Technology of Inorganic Materials, 
Johannes Kepler University Linz, Altenberger Str. 69, 4040 Linz, Austria.
(5)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Combinatorial Oxide Chemistry at the 
Institute for Chemical Technology of Inorganic Materials, Johannes Kepler 
University Linz, Altenberger Str. 69, 4040 Linz, Austria and CEST Competence 
Center for Electrochemical Surface Technology, Viktor Kaplan Str. 2, 2700 Wiener 
Neustadt, Austria.

Developing novel compounds with antimicrobial properties can be an effective 
approach to decreasing the number of healthcare-associated infections, 
particularly in the context of medical devices and touch surfaces. A variety of 
molybdate powders (Ag2MoO4, CaMoO4, CuMoO4 and Cu3Mo2O9) were synthesized and 
characterized, and Escherichia coli was used as a model gram-negative bacterium 
to demonstrate their antimicrobial properties. Optical density measurements, 
bacterial colony growth, and stained gel images for protein expression clearly 
showed that silver- and copper molybdates inhibit bacterial growth, whereas 
CaMoO4 exhibited no bactericidal effect. All tests were performed in both 
daylight and darkness to assess the possible contribution of a photocatalytic 
effect on the activity observed. The main mechanism responsible for the 
antibacterial effect observed for Ag2MoO4 is related to Ag+ release in 
combination with medium acidification, whereas for compounds containing copper, 
leaching of Cu2+ ions is proposed. All these effects are known to cause damage 
at the cellular level. A photocatalytic contribution to the antibacterial 
activity was not clearly observable. Based on the pH and solubility measurements 
performed for powders in contact with various media (ultrapure water and 
bacterial growth medium), silver molybdate (Ag2MoO4) was identified as the best 
antibacterial candidate. This compound has great potential for further use in 
hybrid powder-polymer/varnish systems for touch surfaces in healthcare settings.

DOI: 10.1116/1.4996434
PMID: 29113436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1775. J Biol Chem. 2001 Dec 7;276(49):46151-9. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M106319200. Epub 2001 
Sep 10.

A Mutation in the gene-encoding bacteriophage T7 DNA polymerase that renders the 
phage temperature-sensitive.

Kumar JK(1), Kremsdorf R, Tabor S, Richardson CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Gene 5 of bacteriophage T7 encodes a DNA polymerase essential for phage 
replication. A single point mutation in gene 5 confers temperature sensitivity 
for phage growth. The mutation results in an alanine to valine substitution at 
residue 73 in the exonuclease domain. Upon infection of Escherichia coli by the 
temperature-sensitive phage at 42 degrees C, there is no detectable T7 DNA 
synthesis in vivo. DNA polymerase activity in these phage-infected cell extracts 
is undetectable at assay temperatures of 30 degrees C or 42 degrees C. Upon 
infection at 30 degrees C, both DNA synthesis in vivo and DNA polymerase 
activity in cell extracts assayed at 30 degrees C or 42 degrees C approach 
levels observed using wild-type T7 phage. The amount of soluble gene 5 protein 
produced at 42 degrees C is comparable to that produced at 30 degrees C, 
indicating that the temperature-sensitive phenotype is not due to reduced 
expression, stability, or solubility. Thus the polymerase induced at elevated 
temperatures by the temperature-sensitive phage is functionally inactive. 
Consistent with this observation, biochemical properties and heat inactivation 
profiles of the genetically altered enzyme over-produced at 30 degrees C closely 
resemble that of wild-type T7 DNA polymerase. It is likely that the polymerase 
produced at elevated temperatures is a misfolded intermediate in its folding 
pathway.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M106319200
PMID: 11551938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1776. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2007 Nov 1;98(4):812-24. doi: 10.1002/bit.21481.

Model-based characterization of an amino acid racemase from Pseudomonas putida 
DSM 3263 for application in medium-constrained continuous processes.

Bechtold M(1), Makart S, Reiss R, Alder P, Panke S.

Author information:
(1)Bioprocess Laboratory, Institute of Process Engineering, ETH Zurich, 
Universitaetsstrasse 6, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.

The amino acid racemase with broad substrate specificity from Pseudomonas putida 
DSM 3263 was overproduced and characterized with respect to application in an 
integrated multi-step process (e.g., dynamic kinetic resolution) 
that--theoretically--would allow for 100% chemical yield and 100% enantiomeric 
excess. Overexpression of the racemase gene in Escherichia coli delivered cell 
free extract with easily sufficient activity (20-50 U mg(-1) total protein) for 
application in an enzyme membrane reactor (EMR) setting. Model-based 
experimental analysis of a set of enzyme assays clearly indicated that 
racemization of the model substrates D- or L-methionine could be accurately 
described by reversible Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The corresponding kinetic 
parameters were determined from progress curves for the entire suitable set of 
aqueous-organic mixtures (up to 60% methanol and 40% acetonitrile) that are 
eligible for an integrated process scheme. The resulting kinetic expression 
could be successfully applied to describe enzyme membrane reactor performance 
under a large variety of settings. Model-based calculations suggested that a 
methanol content of 10% and an acetonitrile content of 20% provide maximum 
productivity in EMR operations. However product concentrations were decreased in 
comparison to purely aqueous operation due to decreasing solubility of 
methionine with increasing organic solvent content. Finally, biocatalyst 
stability was investigated in different solvent compositions following a 
model-based approach. Buffer without organic content provided excellent 
stability at moderate temperatures (20-35 degrees C) while addition of 20% 
acetonitrile or methanol drastically reduced the half-life of the racemase.

(c) 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.21481
PMID: 17486655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1777. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2013 Aug;20(8):1266-73. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00268-13. Epub 
2013 Jun 12.

The receptor binding domain of botulinum neurotoxin serotype A (BoNT/A) inhibits 
BoNT/A and BoNT/E intoxications in vivo.

Ben David A(1), Diamant E, Barnea A, Rosen O, Torgeman A, Zichel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Israel Institute for Biological Research, Ness 
Ziona, Israel.

The receptor binding domain of botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT), also designated the 
C terminus of the heavy chain (H(C)), is a promising vaccine candidate against 
botulism. In this study, a highly efficient expression system for the protein 
was developed in Escherichia coli, which provided yields that were 1 order of 
magnitude higher than those reported to date (350 mg H(C) per liter). The 
product was highly immunogenic, protecting mice from a challenge with 10(5) 50% 
lethal dose (LD(50)) after a single vaccination and generating a neutralizing 
titer of 49.98 IU/ml after three immunizations. In addition, a single boost with 
HC increased neutralizing titers by up to 1 order of magnitude in rabbits 
hyperimmunized against toxoid. Moreover, we demonstrate here for the first time 
in vivo inhibition of BoNT/A intoxication by H(C)/A, presumably due to a 
blockade of the neurotoxin protein receptor SV2. Administration of HC/A delayed 
the time to death from 10.4 to 27.3 h in mice exposed to a lethal dose of BoNT/A 
(P = 0.0005). Since BoNT/A and BoNT/E partially share SV2 isoforms as their 
protein receptors, the ability of H(C)/A to cross-inhibit BoNT/E intoxication 
was evaluated. The administration of H(C)/A together with BoNT/E led to 50% 
survival and significantly delayed the time to death for the nonsurviving mice 
(P = 0.003). Furthermore, a combination of H(C)/A and a subprotective dose of 
antitoxin E fully protected mice against 850 mouse LD(50) of BoNT/E, suggesting 
complementary mechanisms of protection consisting of toxin neutralization by 
antibodies and receptor blocking by H(C)/A.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00268-13
PMCID: PMC3754506
PMID: 23761665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1778. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2012 Apr;19(4):536-44. doi: 10.1128/CVI.05708-11. Epub 
2012 Feb 22.

Serodiagnosis efficacy and immunogenicity of the fusion protein of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis composed of the 10-kilodalton culture filtrate protein, ESAT-6, and 
the extracellular domain fragment of PPE68.

Xu JN(1), Chen JP, Chen DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology and Microbiology, West China School of Preclinical 
and Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

In order to identify immunodominant antigens of Mycobacterium tuberculosis that 
may be used in the serodiagnosis of active tuberculosis (TB), we designed an M. 
tuberculosis fusion protein consisting of CFP-10 (10-kDa culture filtrate 
protein), ESAT-6 (6-kDa early secreted antigenic target), and the extracellular 
domain fragment of PPE68 (PPE68'). Then, the coding sequences of the three 
proteins were inserted into a prokaryotic expression vector, pET-32a(+). To 
enhance the immunological response, the proteins were linked together. The 
fusion proteins with a 6 × His tag were successfully overexpressed in 
Escherichia coli BL21 and purified. The purified proteins were applied for 
detection of the total IgG titer by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) with human sera from well-characterized TB cases and the control cases, 
and results were compared to those with purified protein derivative tuberculin 
(PPD). The ELISA results showed that among 140 cases of confirmed active TB and 
70 control cases, CFP-10-ESAT-6-PPE68' had a sensitivity of 73.3% and 
specificity of 94.3%, compared to a sensitivity of 66.7% and specificity of 
74.3% for PPD and a sensitivity of 65% and specificity of 91.4% for 
CFP-10-ESAT-6. In addition, the fusion protein CFP-10-ESAT-6-PPE68' stimulated a 
higher level of antigen-specific gamma interferon (IFN-γ) release for active-TB 
patients than PPD and CFP-10-ESAT-6. After immunization of C57BL/6 mice, the 
findings indicated that the total IgG titers and the concentrations of IFN-γ in 
mice immunized by CFP-10-ESAT-6-PPE68' were high and induced strong, long-term 
humoral immunity compared to results with PPD and CFP-10-ESAT-6. Thus, our study 
indicates that the fusion protein CFP-10-ESAT-6-PPE68' may be useful as an 
immunodominant antigen for the serodiagnosis of active TB.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.05708-11
PMCID: PMC3318282
PMID: 22357648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1779. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2011 
Oct;29(5):339-47.

Evaluation of recombinant SjLAP and SjFBPA in detecting antibodies to 
Schistosoma japonicum.

Faustina HL, Luo QL, Zhong ZR, Song XR, Chen ZW, Wang L, Hu MM, Chu DY, Shen JL.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the early response of immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody 
responses to Schistosoma japonicum infection in mice by using the recombinant 
proteins, S. japonicum leucine aminopeptidase (rSjLAP) and S. japonicum 
fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase (rSjFBPA), and evaluate the potential of 
rSjLAP and rSjFBPA in diagnosis as well as in assessment of therapeutic efficacy 
in human schistosomiasis.
METHODS: rSjLAP or rSjFBPA was induced from Escherichia coli BL21 strain 
transfected with the expression vectors, pET-28a-rSjFBPA/BL21 or 
pET-28a-rSjLAP/BL21 using isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactoside (IPTG), and purified 
by Ni-NTA His Bind resin. 88 BALB/c female mice, inbred and 6 to 8 weeks old, 
were randomly divided into 4 groups. Groups A, B and C each made up of 21 mice 
and group D comprised 25 mice. Groups A, B and C were infected with 5, 15 and 25 
S. japonicum cercariae respectively. As control, mice in group D were left 
uninfected. 3 mice from each of groups A, B and C were sacrificed and sera 
collected on days 3, 7, 10, 14, 20, 30, and 60 post infection. All the 25 mice 
in group D were sacrificed on the first day of the experiment for serum 
collection. rSjLAP and rSjFBPA were screened and used in ELISA to test the 
antibody response of the serum samples. Also, sera of 38 acute patients, 96 
chronic patients with schistosomiasis japonica, 90 healthy donors and patients 
with other parasite infections including Clonorchis sinensis (33 cases), 
Paragonimus westermani (40) and hookworms (37) were tested using the recombinant 
protein-based ELISA. In addition, 36 sera each from the acute and chronic 
patients 12 months after treatment with praziquantel and 64 of the chronic 
patients in more than 2 years post-treatment of praziquantel were tested. The 
dosage of praziquantel for both acute and chronic patients was 60 mg/kg, 2 
times/dx2 d.
RESULTS: IgG antibody response was first detected at day 10 post infection by 
rSjLAP, rSjFBPA or the combined antigen assay. The mean absorbance (A450) on 
this day were 0.535 +/- 0.053, 0.595 +/- 0.033, 0.696 +/- 0.104 for group B; 
0.548 +/- 0.060, 0.608 +/- 0.063, 0.621 +/- 0.090 for group C; and 0.415 +/- 
0.038, 0.455 +/- 0.056, 0.498 +/- 0.077 for group A for rSjLAP, rSjFBPA and the 
combined assay respectively (P < 0.05). Early antibody level to both antigens 
was significantly higher in mice infected with 15 or 25 cercariae than those 
with 5 cercariae (P < 0.05). However, ELISA results in patients with confirmed 
schistosomiasis revealed positive rates of 97.4% (37/38) and 87.5% (84/96) for 
acute and chronic schistosomiasis with rSjLAP , 94.7% (36/38) and 88.5% (85/96) 
for acute and chronic schistosomiasis with rSjFBPA and 94.7% (36/38)and 
85.4%(82/96) with both rSjLAP and rSjFBPA respectively. Statistical analysis 
showed no significant difference in the positive rate (P > 0.05). Also, rSjLAP 
and combined antigens showed a specificity of 96.7% (87/90) while that of 
rSjFBPA was 97.8% (88/90). There was a general decrease in the antibody titer of 
the patients after treatment. In 12 months after treatment it was 0.236 +/- 
0.212 with rSjLAP, 0.287 +/- 0.191 with rSjFBPA, and 0.235 +/- 0.120 with both 
antigens respectively for acute cases; For chronic patients, it was 0.266 +/- 
0.124, 0.261 +/- 0.143 and 0.265 +/- 0.140 in 12 months post-treatment, and 
0.204 +/- 0.074, 0.176 +/- 0.074, and 0.176 +/- 0.073 in 2 years, respectively. 
For healthy control, it was 0.188 +/- 0.056, 0.173 +/- 0.45, and 0.184 +/- 
0.051, respectively. No significant difference on antibody titer was found 
between treated patients and control (P > 0.05). The cross reaction with C. 
sinensis was 15.2% (5/33) for rSjLAP, 12.1% (4/33) for rSjFBPA and 9.2% (3/33) 
for combined antigens. With P. westermani, it was 15.0% (6/40), 12.5% (5/40) and 
15.0% (6/40), respectively, and 8.1% (3/37) with hookworm infection.
CONCLUSION: The study showed a satisfactory sensitivity and specificity of 
rSjLAP and rSjFBPA by ELISA which is promising for the immunological diagnosis 
of schistosomiasis.

PMID: 24830194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1780. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Dec;132:110807. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110807. 
Epub 2020 Oct 15.

The response of PIK3CA/KRAS-mutant colorectal cancer stem-like cells to 
RGD-peptide FraC produced by the strawberry anemone: A promising water-soluble 
peptide-based inhibitor of metastasis-driver gene CXCR4, stem cell regulatory 
genes and self-renewal.

Sarkhosh-Inanlou R(1), Imani M(2), Sam MR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biotechnology, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran. Electronic address: 
sarkhosh_1991@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biotechnology, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran; Department of Basic Sciences, 
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran. Electronic 
address: m.imani@urmia.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of 
Biotechnology, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran; Department of Pathology, Faculty 
of Veterinary Medicine, Urmia University, Urmia, Iran; Department of 
Biotechnology, Artemia and Aquaculture Research Institute, Urmia University, 
Urmia, Iran. Electronic address: m.sam@urmia.ac.ir.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a stem cell-based disease. PIK3CA/KRAS-mutant CRC 
stem cells (CRCSCs) display high self-renewal, metastatic properties, high 
activity of PI3K and KRAS signaling pathways with chemoresistant phenotypes. 
Recently, RGD peptide (containing Arg-Gly-Asp motif)-based therapy of solid 
tumor cells has attracted much attention. However, little is known whether this 
method can target self-renewal capacity, key effectors of PI3K and KRAS 
signaling pathways such as metastasis-driver gene CXCR4 and stem cell regulatory 
genes with caspase-3 reactivation in CRCSCs overexpressing RGD-dependent 
integrins. The sea anemone Actinia fragacea produces a water-soluble RGD-peptide 
fragacea toxin C (FraC) suggesting the possible activity of FraC against 
PIK3CA/KRAS-mutant CRCSCs. Recombinant FraC was expressed via pET-28a(+)-FraC in 
E. coli and purified through affinity chromatography followed by performing 
SDS-PAGE and hemolytic activity assay. Next, PIK3CA/KRAS-mutant HCT-116 cells 
that serve as an attractive model for CRCSCs were treated with FraC. Thereafter, 
cell numbers, viability, proliferation, LDH activity, cytotoxicity index, CXCR4 
and pluripotency network genes expression, self-renewal capacity, caspase-3 
activity with apoptosis were evaluated. Caspase-1, -2, -3,…, -9 sequences were 
analyzed for RGD-binding motifs. FraC sequence and structure were also evaluated 
by bioinformatics software. FraC altered cellular morphology to round shapes and 
disrupted cell connections. 48 h post-treatment with 0.056- to 7.2 μM FraC 
resulted in 12 %-99 % and 8 %-97.6 % decreases in cell numbers and viabilities 
respectively and increased LDH activity by 0.2 %-66.7 % in a dose-dependent 
manner. The results of the cytotoxicity index showed that FraC induces 
significant toxicity on HCT-116 cells compared to PBMCs and Huvec cells. FraC 
dramatically decreased the expression of CXCR4 and pluripotency network genes 
Bmi-1, Sox-2, Oct-4 and Nanog followed by remarkable decreases in self-renewal 
capacity ranged from 91- to 0 colonies per well for 0.056- to 3.6 μM FraC after 
2 weeks. Caspase-3 was found to contain an RGD-binding motif and its activity 
increased with increasing FraC concentrations followed by apoptosis induction. 
Potential RGD-binding motifs for FraC were also found in caspase-1, -7, -8 and 
-9. Unique advantages of FraC peptide, such as low molecular weight, water 
solubility, high sensitivity of CRC stem-like cells with more selective toxicity 
to this compound, targeting tumor cell membrane and self-renewal capacity along 
with the modulation of CXCR4 and stem cell regulatory genes as upstream and 
downstream effectors of undruggable PI3K and KRAS signaling pathways may open up 
avenues for FraC peptide-based therapy of PIK3CA/KRAS-mutant CRCSCs with lower 
toxicity on healthy cells.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110807
PMID: 33068939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1781. Mol Pharm. 2015 Dec 7;12(12):4375-85. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5b00580. 
Epub 2015 Oct 30.

Fatty Acid-Binding Protein 5 Facilitates the Blood-Brain Barrier Transport of 
Docosahexaenoic Acid.

Pan Y, Scanlon MJ, Owada Y(1)(2), Yamamoto Y(1), Porter CJ, Nicolazzo JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Organ Anatomy, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine 
, Minami-kogushi 1-1-1, Ube 755-8505, Japan.
(2)Department of Organ Anatomy, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine , 
Seiryo-machi 2-1, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8575, Japan.

The brain has a limited ability to synthesize the essential polyunsaturated 
fatty acid (PUFA) docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) from its omega-3 fatty acid 
precursors. Therefore, to maintain brain concentrations of this PUFA at 
physiological levels, plasma-derived DHA must be transported across the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB). While DHA is able to partition into the luminal 
membrane of brain endothelial cells, its low aqueous solubility likely limits 
its cytosolic transfer to the abluminal membrane, necessitating the requirement 
of an intracellular carrier protein to facilitate trafficking of this PUFA 
across the BBB. As the intracellular carrier protein fatty acid-binding protein 
5 (FABP5) is expressed at the human BBB, the current study assessed the putative 
role of FABP5 in the brain endothelial cell uptake and BBB transport of DHA in 
vitro and in vivo, respectively. hFAPB5 was recombinantly expressed and purified 
from Escherichia coli C41(DE3) cells and the binding affinity of DHA to hFABP5 
assessed using isothermal titration calorimetry. The impact of FABP5 siRNA on 
uptake of (14)C-DHA into immortalized human brain microvascular endothelial 
(hCMEC/D3) cells was assessed. An in situ transcardiac perfusion method was 
optimized in C57BL/6 mice and subsequently used to compare the BBB influx rate 
(Kin) of (14)C-DHA between FABP5-deficient (FABP5(-/-)) and wild-type 
(FABP5(+/+)) C57BL/6 mice. DHA bound to hFABP5 with an equilibrium dissociation 
constant of 155 ± 8 nM (mean ± SEM). FABP5 siRNA transfection decreased hCMEC/D3 
mRNA and protein expression of FABP5 by 53.2 ± 5.5% and 44.8 ± 13.7%, 
respectively, which was associated with a 14.1 ± 2.7% reduction in (14)C-DHA 
cellular uptake. By using optimized conditions for the in situ transcardiac 
perfusion (a 1 min preperfusion (10 mL/min) followed by perfusion of (14)C-DHA 
(1 min)), the Kin of (14)C-DHA was 0.04 ± 0.01 mL/g/s. Relative to FABP5(+/+) 
mice, the Kin of (14)C-DHA decreased 36.7 ± 12.4% in FABP5(-/-) mice. This study 
demonstrates that FABP5 binds to DHA and is involved in the brain endothelial 
cell uptake and subsequent BBB transport of DHA, confirming the importance of 
this cytoplasmic carrier protein in the CNS exposure of this PUFA essential for 
neuronal function.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5b00580
PMID: 26455443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1782. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2014 Feb 1;274(3):393-401. doi: 
10.1016/j.taap.2013.12.005. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Functional characterization of cytochromes P450 2B from the desert woodrat 
Neotoma lepida.

Wilderman PR(1), Jang HH(2), Malenke JR(3), Salib M(2), Angermeier E(2), Lamime 
S(2), Dearing MD(3), Halpert JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
pwilderman@ucsd.edu.
(2)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Mammalian detoxification processes have been the focus of intense research, but 
little is known about how wild herbivores process plant secondary compounds, 
many of which have medicinal value or are drugs. cDNA sequences that code for 
three enzymes of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B subfamily, here termed 2B35, 2B36, 
and 2B37 have been recently identified from a wild rodent, the desert woodrat 
(Malenke et al., 2012). Two variant clones of each enzyme were engineered to 
increase protein solubility and to facilitate purification, as reported for 
CYP2B enzymes from multiple species. When expressed in Escherichia coli each of 
the woodrat proteins gave the characteristic maximum at 450nm in a reduced 
carbon monoxide difference spectrum but generally expressed at lower levels than 
rat CYP2B1. Two enzymes, 2B36 and 2B37, showed dealkylation activity with the 
model substrates 7-ethoxy-4-(trifluoromethyl)coumarin and 7-benzyloxyresorufin, 
whereas 2B35 was inactive. Binding of the monoterpene (+)-α-pinene produced a 
Type I shift in the absorbance spectrum of each enzyme. Mutation of 2B37 at 
residues 114, 262, or 480, key residues governing ligand interactions with other 
CYP2B enzymes, did not significantly change expression levels or produce the 
expected functional changes. In summary, two catalytic and one ligand-binding 
assay are sufficient to distinguish among CYP2B35, 2B36, and 2B37. Differences 
in functional profiles between 2B36 and 2B37 are partially explained by changes 
in substrate recognition site residue 114, but not 480. The results advance our 
understanding of the mechanisms of detoxification in wild mammalian herbivores 
and highlight the complexity of this system.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2013.12.005
PMCID: PMC3970846
PMID: 24361551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1783. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2016 Aug;113(8):1666-75. doi: 10.1002/bit.25944. Epub 2016 
Feb 4.

Solubilization and Iterative Saturation Mutagenesis of α1,3-fucosyltransferase 
from Helicobacter pylori to enhance its catalytic efficiency.

Choi YH(1), Kim JH(1), Park BS(2), Kim BG(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Program for Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Seoul National University, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(2)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Interdisciplinary Program for Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Seoul National University, Seoul, 
South Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.
(4)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.
(5)Institute of Bioengineering, Seoul National University, 151-742, Seoul, South 
Korea. byungkim@snu.ac.kr.

α1,3-Fucosyltransferase (α1,3-FucT) is essential for the biosynthesis of 
biologically active α1,3-fucosyloligosacchairdes (3-FOs) from human milk 
oligosaccharides (HMO), particularly 3-fucosyllactose (3-FL) trisaccharide. 
α1,3-FucT from Helicobacter pylori 26695 (FutA) accepts lactose and LacNAc as 
glycan acceptors and has a very low level of expression in Escherichia coli, and 
it shows a low catalytic activity for lactose in the large-scale synthesis of 
3-FL. To overcome the poor solubility of FutA, codon optimization, and 
systematic truncation of the protein at the C-terminus with only one heptad 
repeat remaining (Δ52 FutA) were conducted to yield 150-200 mg/L of soluble 
protein of FutA and resulting in more than an 18-fold increase in the 3-FL 
yield. To improve the low level of enzyme catalytic activity for lactose, 
focused directed evolution was attempted using a semi-rational approach that 
combines structure-guided computational analysis and subsequent iterative 
saturation mutagenesis (ISM). In order to select the functional residues in 
active site/substrate binding site, docking simulation was used together with 
HotSpot Wizard to target evolutionarily variable amino acid positions. A128 site 
was selected from the key residue located in the active site, and A128N mutant 
displayed a 3.4-fold higher catalytic activity than wild-type Δ52 FutA. 
Considering that the A128N mutation is located in the deep cleft of the lactose 
binding site, the residues within the substrate binding sites, especially on the 
two α-helices for lactose and one α-helix for GDP-fucose, were subjected to 
structure-guided ISM. The selected residues from each helix were clustered, and 
ISM was performed for each cluster in parallel. In particular, the mutant with 
triple mutations (A128N/H129E/Y132I) located on the α5 helix exhibited a 
9.6-fold improvement in specific activity when compared to wild-type Δ52 FutA. 
When such clustered mutations on two α-helices (α5 and α2/loop) were combined, 
mutants with triple (A128N/H129E/S46F) and quadruple mutations 
(A128N/H129E/Y132I/S46F) were generated, which showed the synergistic effects, 
that is 14.5- and 15.5-fold improvement in specific activity relative to 
wild-type Δ52 FutA, respectively. The mutations increased their binding affinity 
for lactose and kcat values for lactose and GDP-fucose. The Δ52 FutA quadruple 
mutant (A128N/H129E/Y132I/S46F) was successfully applied to in vitro synthesis 
of 3-FL with an improved yield and productivity (>96% yield based on 5 mM of 
GDP-Fuc within 1 h). Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2016;113: 1666-1675. © 2016 Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25944
PMID: 26804479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]